INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
                                                                               DEUTSCH
CONTENTS


1.    ABOUT THIS GUIDE                                                 5




                                                                               FRANÇAIS
2.    INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                        8
2.1   Intended use                                                     8
2.2   Device description and features                                  8
      2.2.1 Device variants and configuration                          8




                                                                               ITALIANO
      2.2.2 Principles of operation                                    9
      2.2.3 Accessories and products used in combination              10
2.3   Indications                                                     14
2.4   Contraindications                                               14
2.5   Precautions                                                     14




                                                                               ESPAÑOL
2.6   Compatibility information                                       16
2.7   Further information                                             16
2.8   Installation                                                    16




                                                                               PORTUGUÊS
3.                                                                   17
3.1   Toolbar                                                         18
3.2   Views                                                           19
3.3   Object tree                                                     21




                                                                               SVENSKA
3.4   Plans                                                           22

4.    STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                                     23
4.1   Define panoramic curve                                          24




                                                                               NEDERLANDS
4.2   Detect nerve canal                                              25
4.3                                                                   26
4.4   Plan implant                                                    27
4.5   Plan abutments                                                  28
4.6   Plan sleeves                                                    29
                                                                               DANSK



4.7   Print protocols                                                 30

5.    SAFETY CHECK                                                   31
                                                                               РУССКИЙ




6.    DISTRIBUTORS AND SERVICE                                       33

7.    EXPLANATION OF THE SYMBOLS ON LABELS OR LEAFLETS               34




                                                           Dental Wings GmbH
                                                                                               DEUTSCH
1.          ABOUT THIS GUIDE


These Instructions for Use are valid for the product life cycle of coDiag-
        8.6 unless new instructions are published within this period.

Electronic Instructions for Use
                8.6 Instructions for Use are provided in electronic form. A pa-
per version can be requested from the manufacturer. For further information
and contact details see http://codiagnostix.com/ifu/



Disclaimer
               software is designed for use by persons who have appropri-
ate knowledge in implantology and surgical dentistry.




                                                                                     ESPAÑOL
The user of                 is solely responsible for determining whether or




                                                                                               ITALIANO
not any product or treatment is suitable for a particular patient and circum-
stances. The user of co               is solely responsible for the correctness,
completeness and adequacy of all data entered into                     software.
The user has to check the correctness and accuracy of planning with coDiag-
         software and to assess each individual case.

The selection of appropriate material as well as the correct fabrication of
scan or surgical templates lie within the sole responsibility of the user.

                  is not intended to be used in direct contact with the patient or
with life-sustaining devices.

Dental Wings products must be used in accordance with their accompanying
instructions for use. Improper use or handling of Dental Wings products will
void the warranty, if any, given for Dental Wings products. If you require ad-
ditional information on the proper use of Dental Wings products, contact
your local distributor.

DENTAL WINGS GMBH, ITS AFFILIATES OR DISTRIBUTORS DISCLAIM
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, WRITTEN OR ORAL, WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCTS, INCLUDING
ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, ERROR-FREE OPERATION OR NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND THE
PRODUCTS ARE SOLD “AS IS”.
                                                                                               РУССКИЙ




                                                                                                5
ABOUT THIS GUIDE                                                                           5
Our maximum liability arising out of the products or their use, whether
based upon warranty, contract, tort or otherwise, shall not exceed the
actual payments received by us in respect of the purchase price thereof.
In no event shall we be liable for special, incidental or consequential
damages, including, but not limited to, loss of profits, loss of data or
loss of use damages, arising hereunder or from the sale of the products.

Please note that                 software is subject to change. The user is ob-
liged to study the latest developments of                  regularly.

Product life cycle
The product life cycle of                  software is 3 years. After expiration
of this time, the software may continue to function properly as long as con-
figuration or hardware are not modified.
However, legal and regulatory requirements change at regular intervals. The
legal manufacturer does, therefore, not ensure compliance with the regulat-
ory framework beyond the product life cycle period of 3 years (Declaration of
Conformity expires after 3 years). Update your software after the end of its
product life cycle to maintain regulatory compliance.

Input data
The performance of                    depends on the quality and accuracy of
the CT and/or DVT scan as well as IO, model or impression scan imported.
The user is solely responsible to ensure that the quality of the imported data
is sufficient for proper performance of                    Relevant anatomical
structures shall be visible in the scan. CT and DVT devices have to comply
with the recommendations of ICRP97 (International Commission on Radiolo-
gical Protection).

Third party products
Within the scope of                  the user works with third party manufac-
turers' products. Dental Wings GmbH, its subsidiaries, or distribution part-
ners disclaim any liability for damages in connection with or arising from
planning with or usage of third party manufacturers' products.

Software license
                 software is protected by a License Agreement and may be
used or copied only in accordance with the terms of this agreement. It is il-
legal to copy or use                  software on any medium except those
permitted in the License Agreement.

Some of the features offered by                  may require an additional li-
cense on your dongle. Contact your local distributor for more information.
                                                                                                      РУССКИЙ




Availability
Some of the products mentioned in this guide may not be available in all
countries.




6                                                                                  ABOUT THIS GUIDE
                                                                                           DEUTSCH
Trade names and trademarks
DWOS® is a registered trademark of Dental Wings inc., Canada. coDiag-
               and               are trademarks of Dental Wings GmbH,
Germany.

Straumann® and CARES® are registered trademarks of Straumann Holding
AG, Switzerland.

Microsoft®, SQL Server ®, Windows ®, Windows XP and Windows Vista are re-
gistered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation, USA.

Intel®       is a trademark of Intel Corporation registered in the U.S. and/or
other countries.

        is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., USA.

Macintosh®, Mac®, Mac OS® and iPad® are trademarks of Apple Inc., re-




                                                                                 ESPAÑOL


                                                                                           ITALIANO
gistered in the U.S. and other countries.

App StoreSM is a service mark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries.

         is a trademark of SafeNet, Inc., USA.

CAMLOG® is a registered trademark of CAMLOG Biotechnologies AG,
Switzerland.

Steco® is a registered trademark of steco-system technik GmbH & Co. KG,
Germany.

bredent® is a registered trademark of Bredent Dentalgeräte und Materialien,
Fach- und Organisationsberatung Peter Brehm, Germany.

Copyright
Dental Wings documents may not be reprinted or published, in whole or in
part, without the written authorization of Dental Wings.
                                                                                           РУССКИЙ




                                                                                            7
ABOUT THIS GUIDE                                                                       7
2.         INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW


2.1        Intended use

                is intended to be used as preoperative planning software for
dental implant placement.



2.2        Device description and features

                is a 3D implant planning software allowing the import and
processing of the 3D CT/DVT scan dataset (DICOM standard). Based on the
finalized implant planning, the software allows for export of data for the pro-
duction of surgical templates using the analog             table. In the analog
workflow the patient has to wear a scan template with reference pins during
the CT/DVT scan.

Working with the software is based on a patient’s medical image data such
as a CT (Computed Tomography) and DVT (Digital Volume Tomography) that
is processed by                after being transferred via CD/DVD, network
or various other storage mediums.

Planning is performed by the calculation of several views (such as virtual OPG
or a three-dimensional reconstruction of the image dataset), by the analysis
of the image data and the placement of implants, abutments and drilling
sleeves.



2.2.1.     Device variants and configuration

               is available in a full version and a client version.

The Client is assigned to a               full version and can communicate
and export template data only through the assigned full version.

               is an open software system. The library contains implant,
abutment and sleeve systems from several major manufacturers.
                                                                                                              РУССКИЙ




For surgical template fabrication with the               a template plan from
               is required




8                                                                                 INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
                                                                                      DEUTSCH
2.2.2.     Principles of operation

Implant planning with                    is part of a
guided surgery workflow.



2.2.2.1. Analog workflow

The master model represents the patient situation and      [1] Master model
is the basis for the production of the scan and surgical       fabrication
template [2, 5].




                                                                            ESPAÑOL
The scan template contains information about the de-       [2] Scan template




                                                                                      ITALIANO
sired prosthetic outcome in form of radiopaque teeth           fabrication
(visible in CT/DVT scan [3]). The scan template has to
be connected to the templiX plate containing three ref-
erence pins with the            in order to ensure the
link between digital implant planning and surgical tem-
plate fabrication [4, 5].


The patient is scanned wearing the scan template with      [3] CT/DVT
a commercially available 3D CT/DVT scanner.                    scanning




The user can import the 3D dataset (DICOM) directly        [4] 3D implant
into                  planning software. Each implant is       planning
positioned with respect to the patient’s anatomy and
the desired prosthetic outcome. After completion of
implant planning, the software provides the plan for
surgical template production with the            [5] as
well as further print protocols [6].
                                                                                      РУССКИЙ




                                                                                       9
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                         9
The surgical template is produced with the           ac-                             [5] Surgical
cording to the template plan that is provided by                                         template
                for each implant [4]. The surgical tem-                                  fabrication
plate contains the surgical sleeves that guide the sur-
gical instruments and the implant [6]. There is no need
to produce a new template. If desired, the scan tem-
plate [2] can be reworked into the surgical template.


During guided surgery, the surgical template [5] is                                  [6] Guided
fixed in the patient's mouth. Implant bed preparation                                    surgery and
and guided implant insertion is done using appropri-                                     implant
ate guided instruments which have to be compatible                                       insertion
with the used implant and sleeve systems.




2.2.3.     Accessories and products used in combination

The following products and accessories can be used in combination with
              software:



Analog workflow using                        and its accessories


Device for scan and surgical template fabrication by the dental laboratory.
        accessories include:

Reference pin and templix reference plate
Devices for scan template production.

Scan control bar
Additional device for enhancement of quality of CT/DVT scans.

Generic sleeve positioner including closing lid
Device for sleeve positioning with
                                                                                                          РУССКИЙ




10                                                                            INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
                                                                                          DEUTSCH
2.2.3.1. Computer hardware and software requirements

The following requirements are the minimum requirements recommended for
smooth operation of                   However, under certain circumstances
the software might also run on other configurations.
  Processor: Intel®         or AMD         64 X2
  Main memory: 3 GB
  Hard disk: 1 GB of free storage space for installation and approx. 50 MB
  per patient case
  Monitor
  Text input device (e.g. keyboard)
  Pointing device (e.g. mouse)
  DVD drive
  One free USB port
  Minimum screen resolution: 1024 x 768 pixels
  Operating system: Microsoft® Windows 7 recommended (other supported
  operating systems: Microsoft® Windows XP, Vista)




                                                                                ESPAÑOL
  PDF reader: Adobe Reader XI




                                                                                          ITALIANO
Optional components
 DVD burner
 Printer
 Internet connection
 An internet connection is required, for instance, for online updates, remote
 support or online transfer.
 Network connection
 A network connection is required for using the optional Network Database
 SQL or Network License.

Additional requirements for the              Network Database
Working with the Network Database SQL module requires a Microsoft® SQL
Server ®.

Additional requirements for the                   Network License
  An additional computer with a free USB slot running Microsoft® Windows
  which acts as a dongle server (a server running 24/7 is recommended, but
  not necessary)
  A permanent (W)LAN connection to the dongle server while running
                  on the client computer
  Optional: Shared network drive to store the database
                                                                                          РУССКИЙ




                                                                                          11
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                         11
Network configuration requirements

  Client: port 80, outgoing
  Online Updater
  Client: port 80, outgoing
  Network Database SQL
  To configure your network for use with SQL Server ®, see the information
  provided by Microsoft or contact your Dental Wings support.
  Network dongle
  Client: TCP port 54237, UDP port 21945, both outgoing
  Server: TCP port 54237, UDP port 21945, both incoming

Additional requirements for running                      on Apple® Mac
   ®
OS X
  Macintosh® computer with Intel® processor
  Mac OS® X 10.6 or newer
  ‘Parallels Desktop’ for Macintosh including valid Windows ® license (soft-
  ware to be purchased separately)

Limitations regarding screen resolution
For optimum usability of                    a screen resolution of 1680 x 1050
pixels (resp. 1280 x 1024 pixels for monitors 4:3) or higher with 96 dpi is re-
commended. Color resolution should be 32 bit, true color. The maximum res-
olution per view (3D reconstruction, virtual OPG, etc.) is 4096 x 3072 pixels.



2.2.3.2. Input data requirements

The software supports a wide range of image sources, including Computed
Tomography (CT) and Digital Volume Tomography (DVT) as well as surface,
intra-oral (IO) and impression scans from different manufacturers. It is also
possible to work with other sliced image data or volume data.

Supporting information for CT/DVT scans
The production of CT/DVT scans lies within the full responsibility of the radi-
ologist or appropriately qualified personnel. However, the following require-
ments have to be observed to support image data processing and implant
planning with
                                                                                                              РУССКИЙ




12                                                                                INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
                                                                                            DEUTSCH
Preparation
  All metal parts which are not fixed have to be removed from the patient’s
  mouth.
  When using the analog workflow with the               have the patient wear a
  scan template with reference pins during radiology. The reference pins
  have to be completely visible in the CT/DVT scan (one slice above the pin is
  sufficient).
  Make sure that all components attached to the scan template are firmly
  fixed.
  Clean or disinfect the template before placing it in the patient’s mouth.

Positioning
  Align the occlusal plane to the scan plane in the best way possible.

Important CT scanning parameters
  A gantry angle of 0° is recommended to achieve the best quality for image
  reconstruction.
  Block the opposite jaw bone using plastic material or cotton wool pads to




                                                                                  ESPAÑOL


                                                                                            ITALIANO
  avoid artifacts around the reference pins.
  Do NOT vary reconstruction parameters within a series (constant value for
  X and Y axis).
  Set a high-resolution bone algorithm:
     “Inner Ear”
     “Bone”
     “High”
     No “EDGE”!
     Siemens e.g. “AK 97”
     Elscint e.g. “Ultra High”
     etc.
  Parameters for a complete dataset when using dynamic mode:
     Slices: 0.5 mm to 1.0 mm
  When using spiral mode, reconstruction to 1.0 mm slices or less is recom-
  mended.
  KV: approx. 110 to 130
  mA: approx. 20 to 120

Storage of image data
  Only axial slices are required.
  DICOM III format, no raw data.

Visualization of motion artifacts
In case of CT scans with scan template, motion artifacts can be visualized with
                                                                                            РУССКИЙ




the help of a scan control bar.




                                                                                            13
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                           13
2.3         Indications

                is an implant planning and surgery planning software tool in-
tended for use by dental professionals who have appropriate knowledge in
implantology and surgical dentistry. This software reads imaging information
output from medical scanners such as CT or DVT scanners. It allows preoper-
ative simulation and evaluation of patient anatomy and dental implant place-
ment.

                   provides printouts of template plans for the creation of sur-
gical templates using a manually operated              table. The surgical tem-
plate as well as a prior scan template are used in direct contact with the pa-
tient to facilitate accurate image registration within                  and the
correct positioning and alignment of the implants as planned with the soft-
ware.



2.4         Contraindications

                 is not intended to be used in direct contact with the patient
nor is it intended to be used with life sustaining devices.

               must only be applied if additional radiation dose from 3D ra-
diology (compared to conventional x-ray) can be justified. Contraindications
applying to other medical devices used within the scope of a guided surgery
workflow have to be taken into consideration.



2.5         Precautions

Please be aware that the user of                software is solely respons-
ible for the correctness, accuracy and completeness of all data entered into
the                 software.

Do not use datasets which can be created in spite of warning messages un-
less you fully understand the consequences of those warnings and are sure
that there will be no unacceptable risk for the correctness and accuracy of
your planning.

Automatic nerve detection does not guarantee exact and accurate nerve
                                                                                                               РУССКИЙ




canal display. Make sure to always verify the correct position of the nerve
canal manually.

Always verify the correctness and accuracy of nerve canal display.




14                                                                                 INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
                                                                                             DEUTSCH
If nerve definition is not clear due to poor image quality, the dataset must not
be used.

Datasets with reference pins in both jaws (maxilla and mandible): The auto-
matic pin detection of                  EASY cannot distinguish between pins
in the maxilla and those in the mandible when scanned together. This can res-
ult in inaccurate planning. Accordingly, do not use the EASY mode to plan
datasets with reference pins in both jaws (maxilla and mandible).

Automatic reference pin detection does not guarantee exact and accurate
results. Make sure to always verify automatically detected reference pins
manually.

Always visually check and verify the correctness and accuracy of reference pin
detection.

If pin detection is not clear due to poor image quality, the dataset must not




                                                                                   ESPAÑOL
be used.




                                                                                             ITALIANO
Printouts containing images of the dataset are not intended for diagnostic
purposes.

Patient data presented on the iPad® are intended for presentation purposes
only. Do not use such data for diagnostic purposes.

The           verification should be printed directly from                 to a
calibrated printer.

The selection of appropriate material as well as the correct fabrication of
scan or surgical templates lie within the sole responsibility of the user.

                  is not intended to be used in close proximity (within a dis-
tance of 1.5 meters) from the patient. Make sure to comply with all applicable
standards and technical regulations for any computer hardware used to-
gether with                   For example:
  Do not use multiple-socket extension cords.
  Do not touch the patient and simultaneously plugs, ports or other connect-
  ing parts of the hardware.
  Make sure that computer hardware which is used together with coDiag-
           is at least 1.5 meters away from the patient.

Make sure to clean or disinfect the template before placing it in the patient's
                                                                                             РУССКИЙ




mouth.




                                                                                             15
INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                            15
2.6        Compatibility information

Archiving and restoring datasets in different versions of                   can
cause compatibility problems.

Avoid using different versions of                    If you have any problems,
contact customer service. In general, patient datasets from older versions of
                 can be opened with                    8.6 (backward compatibil-
ity). Check your dataset carefully to avoid minor incompatibilities which might
lead to failures in the planning of dental implants and/or the production of
scan and surgical templates. Older versions of                    however, can-
not work with datasets from                    8.6 (no forward compatibility of
older                  versions).



2.7        Further information

           Lab Manual
                Help



2.8        Installation


    Note
Do not plug the dongle into the computer until you are prompted to do so
by the installation program.



Steps for installation
1. Insert the installation medium into the computer.
2. If the installation process does not start automatically, start the program
   manually by executing the file setup.exe on your installation medium.
3. Follow the instructions on the screen.
                                                                                                               РУССКИЙ




16                                                                                 INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
                                                                    DEUTSCH
3.


The software user interface is based on the Microsoft®
Windows ® standard allowing you to control the system
easily by mouse. To become familiar with the system
and the control elements such as buttons, check boxes
and edit controls, consult the user manual of your op-
erating system.



     Create dataset (DICOM)
     Opens the DICOM Transfer dialog box to import
     DICOM data (e.g. from a CD) and to create a pa-
     tient dataset.




                                                          ESPAÑOL
     Open dataset




                                                                    ITALIANO
     Opens the Patient Database (DICOM already im-
     ported).

                      Management
                     Management provides access to a
     lot of administrative functions such as backup or
     language setting.

     Archiving and restoring datasets in different ver-
     sions of                 can cause compatibility
     problems.

     Main menu
     Provides access to database-related functions,
     other modules or License Management.

     Updates and remote support
     Shows information about updates and provides
     access to remote support (active internet connec-
     tion required).
                                                                    РУССКИЙ




                                                                    17
                                                            17
3.1         Toolbar




     Tools of the interactive planning workflow.

     Basic tools for view manipulation.

     Menu with complete set of functions.



Customizing the toolbar
Right-click on the toolbar, select Adjust and drag the
icon onto or from the toolbar.




                                                         РУССКИЙ




18
                                                                  DEUTSCH
3.2        Views


    Views are color-coded and can be displayed in
    other views as reference line with the respective
    color.




    Enlarge a view by clicking the Full Screen button
    or double-click the title bar.




    Move the Panoramic view inside and outside with
    the right scroll bar.




                                                        ESPAÑOL


                                                                  ITALIANO
Moving views
  Enable the Move and Turn tool.
  Move the view with the left mouse button.
  Rotate the view with the right mouse button
 (3D view only).




                                                                  РУССКИЙ




                                                                  19
                                                          19
Manipulating the views: most important tools



Description                                                               Symbol


Enables/disables the Move and Turn tool.




Enables/disables the Localizer tool.




Enables/disables the Zoom tool.




Resets all views and fits contents to view box in all views.




Toggles the visibility of the Reference lines in all 2D views.




Aligns the cross-sectional, tangential and axial views with the axis of
the currently selected implant (at least one implant has to be
planned).




                                                                                   РУССКИЙ




20
                                                                                DEUTSCH
3.3         Object tree

The object tree contains:

  Tree functions (e.g. add, delete)
  All the objects (e.g. implants, sleeves, nerve canals,
  measurements)
  Comment field
  Tooth position pane (currently selected tooth posi-
  tion)
  Provides all the information on the implant, abut-
  ment, sleeve and/or virtual tooth for the given tooth
  position and allows to adjust them.
  Density statistics



Moving/rotating objects




                                                                      ESPAÑOL
 Select object in the object tree.




                                                                                ITALIANO
 Activate the positioning mode.
 Move object with the left mouse button.
 Rotate object with the right mouse button (some ob-
 jects only).



Objects: most important tree functions



 Description                                                 Symbol


 Adds a new object (e.g. implant, measurement…).



 Enables/disables the positioning mode.
 As long as the positioning mode is not activated, the ob-
 jects cannot be “touched” with the mouse.

 Deletes the selected object.
                                                                                РУССКИЙ




                                                                                21
                                                                        21
3.4        Plans

Working with different plans
Planning data are managed in plans. You may cre-
ate several plans for one patient. Use the combo
box to browse your plans.



Plans can be:
  Newly created, deleted and copied (select from
  the Plan menu)
  Protected against changes (select Plan > Prop-
  erties from the main menu and tick Protect this
  plan against changes). Such protection is re-
  versible.
  Finalized (select Plan > Finalize from the main
  menu). No further modifications will be allowed.
  Create a copy of the plan if you have to change
  something subsequently.




                                                     РУССКИЙ




22
                                                                      DEUTSCH
4.          STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING


Starting                 and loading a DICOM case
  Start the                software; ensure that the
  dongle is connected.
  Insert the DICOM data you received from the CT/
  DVT scanner into the computer's disc drive.



  Click Create dataset (DICOM) on the start screen.



  Select Import data from CD/DVD and click Import.
  In case of any problems (error messages, warnings,




                                                            ESPAÑOL
  etc.), contact customer service.




                                                                      ITALIANO
  Choose if you would like to plan a case for maxilla
  or mandible. To plan both maxilla and mandible you
  need to generate two separate plans.



                 switches to the standard planning
screen.




    Caution
Please be aware that the user of                    soft-
ware is solely responsible for the correctness, accuracy
and completeness of all data entered into the coDiag-
         software.

Do not use datasets which can be created in spite of
warning messages unless you fully understand the
consequences of those warnings and are sure that
there will be no unacceptable risk for the correctness
and accuracy of your planning.
                                                                      РУССКИЙ




                                                                      23
STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                                    23
4.1       Define panoramic curve


 Click the Panoramic Curve icon.




 Grab the points with the left mouse button and
 move the curve according to the patient’s anatomy.
 To create additional points, click outside the existing
 five basic points.
 To delete additional points, right-click on the point
 and select Delete Point from the context menu. The
 five basic points cannot be deleted.




                                                                                        РУССКИЙ




24                                                         STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                                     DEUTSCH
4.2        Detect nerve canal


  Click the Nerve Canal icon to add the nerve canal
  objects. The positioning mode will be activated
  automatically.



  In the object tree, select the nerve canal you want to
  detect. Set the entry point foramen mentale and the
  exit point foramen mandibule directly in the views.
  Each nerve canal point can be moved and additional
  points can be added in all views. To support nerve
  canal detection, you can set as many nerve canal
  points as you want and in any view you like.




                                                           ESPAÑOL


                                                                     ITALIANO
  Click Detect in the object tree.                  will
  automatically detect the nerve canal.



   Caution
Always verify the correctness and accuracy of nerve
canal display.

Automatic nerve detection does not guarantee exact
and accurate nerve canal display. Make sure to always
verify the correct position of the nerve canal manually.

If nerve definition is not clear due to poor image qual-
ity, the dataset must not be used.
                                                                     РУССКИЙ




                                                                     25
STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                                   25
4.3


  Click the          Registration icon.




  Use the Automatic Search button to start automatic
  pin detection.
  Check your pin detection result for each reference
  pin. To do so, activate the reference pin in the work
  pane and check, in each single view, the correct
  alignment of the blue pin with the white pin in the
  scan. Adjust as necessary.

     Adjusting reference pins with the mouse
       Move the reference pin with the left mouse but-
       ton.
       Rotate the reference pin with the right mouse
       button.

  Confirm and accept reference pin validation.



    Caution
Datasets with reference pins in both jaws (maxilla and
mandible): The automatic pin detection of coDiag-
         EASY cannot distinguish between pins in the
maxilla and those in the mandible when scanned to-
gether. This can result in inaccurate planning. Accord-
ingly, do not use the EASY mode to plan datasets with
reference pins in both jaws (maxilla and mandible).

Automatic reference pin detection does not guarantee
exact and accurate results. Make sure to always verify
automatically detected reference pins manually.

Always visually check and verify the correctness and
accuracy of reference pin detection.

If pin detection is not clear due to poor image quality,
                                                                                        РУССКИЙ




the dataset must not be used.




26                                                         STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                                   DEUTSCH
4.4         Plan implant


  Click the Add Implant icon. The Implant Database
  opens.




  Select the implant and the tooth position(s) where
  the implant(s) shall be placed. Click OK and the
  database closes.




                                                         ESPAÑOL


                                                                   ITALIANO
  Adjust the implant position. The positioning mode
  is already activated.



Adjusting the implant
  Move the implant with the left mouse button.
  Rotate the implant with the right mouse button.




To support correct implant positioning, align the
views with the implant axis. This allows you to rotate
360° around the implant in the tangential view.
                                                                   РУССКИЙ




                                                                   27
STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                                 27
4.5       Plan abutments


 Select an implant in the object tree.
 Click the Edit Abutments icon.




 The dialog box opens.
 Switch to the Database tab and select the desired
 abutment.
 Click OK to apply your selection.




                                                                                  РУССКИЙ




28                                                   STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                                      DEUTSCH
4.6         Plan sleeves


  Select your implant in the object tree and click the
  Edit Sleeves icon.




  The dialog box opens.
  Select a sleeve system from the list.
  Adjust the parameters as desired.

Observe all instructions provided by the sleeve system
manufacturer.

Thoroughly verify all data before storing or using a
preset for a generic sleeve system.




                                                            ESPAÑOL


                                                                      ITALIANO
    Caution
Please be aware that the user of                    soft-
ware is solely responsible for the correctness, accuracy
and completeness of all data entered into the coDiag-
         software.


                                                                      РУССКИЙ




                                                                      29
STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                                    29
4.7         Print protocols


Click on the arrow of the Print icon in order to open
the menu.

Most important print protocols
 Template plan: Required for surgical template fab-
 rication with
            verification: Required to check the setting
 of the             coordinates and to verify the final
 surgical template.
 Surgical protocol: Protocol for using the guided in-
 struments of Straumann® CARES® Guided Surgery.
 Print all: Defines a selection of protocols to be prin-
 ted in one step.




    Caution
Printouts containing images of the dataset are not in-
tended for diagnostic purposes.

The             verification should be printed directly
from                    to a calibrated printer.
Note that a              verification protocol that is not
printed on a calibrated printer, but saved as PDF in-
stead, will not be calibrated.




                                                                                          РУССКИЙ




30                                                           STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                                    DEUTSCH
5.         SAFETY CHECK


  Always align all 2D views with the implant axis and
  rotate around the implant to ensure correct position-
  ing and to avoid any collisions.




                                                          ESPAÑOL


                                                                    ITALIANO
  Always consult collision warning and critical nerve
  distance warning.




                                                                    РУССКИЙ




                                                                    31
SAFETY CHECK                                                31
 Always verify automatic nerve canal detection manu-
 ally.
 Always ensure correct fit of scan template during ra-
 diology.
 Always give the information concerning CT/DVT
 scans (accessible via the Help menu in the software)
 to the radiologist before the first scan.
 Control all automatic functions of the software.
 After the planning is completed, always finalize the
 plan (Plan > Finalize) to ensure that the plan can-
 not be modified later.
 Check all printouts (template plan,           verifica-
 tion, etc.) to ensure that they belong to the corres-
 ponding finalized plan.




                                                                          РУССКИЙ




32                                                         SAFETY CHECK
                                                                                             DEUTSCH
6.          DISTRIBUTORS AND SERVICE


In case of questions, please contact your local distributor. Alternatively, con-
tact coDiagnostiX.support@dental-wings.com (in English or German).




                                                                                   ESPAÑOL


                                                                                             ITALIANO
                                                                                             РУССКИЙ




                                                                                             33
DISTRIBUTORS AND SERVICE                                                             33
7.   EXPLANATION OF THE SYMBOLS ON LABELS OR LEAFLETS




                                                      Caution, consult accompanying
       Batch code
                                                      documents




       Catalog number                                 Use by




       Sterilized using irradiation                   Keep away from sunlight



                                                      Dental Wings products with the CE
                                                      mark fulfill the requirements of the
       Lower limit of temperature
                                                      respective European Directives (see
                                                      Declaration of Conformity).



       Upper limit of temperature                     Consult instructions for use




       Temperature limitation                         Fragile, handle with care



       Caution: Federal law restricts this
       device to sale by or on the order of           Keep dry
       a dental professional.



       Do not re-use                                  This way up




       Non-sterile
                                                                                                 РУССКИЙ




34                                            EXPLANATION OF THE SYMBOLS ON LABELS OR LEAFLETS
                                           www.dental-wings.com


Dental Wings GmbH

Duesseldorfer Platz 1
D-09111 Chemnitz
Germany                                                           01-03-2013 P003.02


© Dental Wings GmbH 2013. All rights reserved.
