  coDiagnostiX™ 9
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
Important! Keep this document for future reference.
                                                                          DEUTSCH
CONTENTS


1.     ABOUT THIS GUIDE                                             5
1.1    Disclaimer                                                   5




                                                                          FRANÇAIS
1.2    License, trademarks and copyright                            8

2.     INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                    9
2.1    Intended use                                                 9




                                                                          ITALIANO
2.2    Device description and features                              9
       2.2.1      Device variants and configuration                 9
       2.2.2      Principles of operation                          10
       2.2.2.1    Guided surgery workflow                          11




                                                                          ESPAÑOL
       2.2.2.2 coDiagnostiX workflow                               12
2.3    Accessories and products used in combination                13
2.4    Indications                                                 14
2.5    Contraindications                                           15




                                                                          PORTUGUÊS
2.6    Safety                                                      15
2.7    Precautions                                                 15
2.8    Compatibility information                                   18
2.9    Data protection                                             18




                                                                          SVENSKA
2.10   Further information                                         19
2.11   Installation                                                19
2.12   Disposal                                                    19




                                                                          NEDERLANDS
3.     USER INTERFACE AND coDiagnostiX BASICS                      20
3.1    Toolbar                                                     22
3.2    Views                                                       23
3.3    Object tree                                                 25
3.4    Plans                                                       26
                                                                          DANSK




4.     STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                                  27
4.1    Import DICOM data                                           28
4.2    Align patient coordinate system                             29
                                                                          РУССКИЙ




4.3    Define panoramic curve                                      30
4.4    Import and match model scan data                            31
4.5    Detect nerve canal                                          34




coDiagnostiX™ 9 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE                  Dental Wings GmbH
4.6    Detect gonyX reference pins                                            35
4.7    Plan implants                                                          37
4.8    Plan sleeves                                                           38
4.9    Design digital drill guide                                             39
4.10   Print protocols                                                        42
4.11   coPeriodontiX                                                          43
4.12   DWOS Synergy                                                           46

5.     SAFETY CHECK                                                           47

6.     DISTRIBUTORS AND SERVICE                                               49

7.     TECHNICAL DATA                                                         50
7.1    Operating and storage conditions                                       50
7.2    Hardware and software requirements                                     50
7.3    Supporting information for (CB)CT scans                                54

8.     SYMBOLS ON THE PRODUCT AND/OR PACKAGING                                56




                                                                                        SVENSKA
                                                                                        NEDERLANDS
                                                                                        DANSK
                                                                                        РУССКИЙ




Dental Wings GmbH                                coDiagnostiX™ 9 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
                                                                                                                  DEUTSCH
1. ABOUT THIS GUIDE


These Instructions for Use are valid for the product life cycle of coDiagnostiX 9 unless new
instructions are published within this period.

These Instructions for Use contain important information for the safe and appropriate use of
coDiagnostiX. Make sure to have read and understood this document prior to working with the
software. In case of questions, contact the manufacturer. Please keep this document for future
reference.

Electronic Instructions for Use
coDiagnostiX 9 Instructions for Use are provided in electronic form. A paper version can be
requested from the manufacturer. For further information and contact details see: http://




                                                                                                       ESPAÑOL
codiagnostix.com/ifu




                                                                                                                  ITALIANO
1.1 Disclaimer
coDiagnostiX software is designed for use by persons who have appropriate knowledge in
implantology and surgical dentistry. To run the software, users must also have basic skills in
operating a computer.

The user of coDiagnostiX is solely responsible for determining whether or not any product or
treatment is suitable for a particular patient and circumstances. The user of coDiagnostiX is solely
responsible for the correctness, completeness and adequacy of all data entered into coDiagnostiX
software. The user has to check the correctness and accuracy of planning with coDiagnostiX
software and to assess each individual case.

Correct dimensioning of the digital drill guide, the selection of appropriate material and an
appropriate and calibrated 3D manufacturing system as well as the correct fabrication of scan
templates and drill guides lie within the sole responsibility of the user.

coDiagnostiX is not intended to be used in direct contact with the patient or with life-sustaining
                                                                                                                  РУССКИЙ




devices.




                                                                                                                     5


ABOUT THIS GUIDE                                                                                              5
Dental Wings products must be used in accordance with their accompanying instructions for use.
Improper use or handling of Dental Wings products will void the warranty, if any, given for Dental
Wings products. If you require additional information on the proper use of Dental Wings products,
contact your local distributor. The user is not allowed to modify Dental Wings products.

DENTAL WINGS GMBH, ITS AFFILIATES OR DISTRIBUTORS DISCLAIM REPRESENTATIONS AND
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WRITTEN OR ORAL, WITH RESPECT
TO THE PRODUCTS, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ERROR-FREE OPERATION OR NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND THE
PRODUCTS ARE SOLD “AS IS”.

Our maximum liability arising out of the products or their use, whether based upon warranty,
contract, tort or otherwise, shall not exceed the actual payments received by us in respect of the
purchase price thereof. In no event shall we be liable for special, incidental or consequential
damages, including, but not limited to, loss of profits, loss of data or loss of use damages, arising
hereunder or from the sale of the products.

Please note that coDiagnostiX software is subject to change. The user is obliged to study the latest
developments of coDiagnostiX regularly.


Product life cycle
The product life cycle of coDiagnostiX software is 3 years. After expiration of this time, the software
may continue to function properly as long as configuration or hardware are not modified and a valid
license maintained. However, as legal and regulatory requirements change at regular intervals, the
legal manufacturer does not ensure compliance with the regulatory framework beyond the product
life cycle period of 3 years. To maintain regulatory compliance, update your software regularly.
Please note, that the actual use of coDiagnostiX is subject to your compliance with our license
framework.


Input data
The performance of coDiagnostiX depends on the quality and accuracy of the (CB)CT scan as well as
the model scan imported. The user is solely responsible to ensure that the quality of the imported
data is sufficient for proper performance of coDiagnostiX. Relevant anatomical structures must be
visible in the above scans. (CB)CT devices have to comply with the recommendations of ICRP97
                                                                                                              РУССКИЙ




(International Commission on Radiological Protection).




6                                                                                          ABOUT THIS GUIDE
                                                                                                                     DEUTSCH
Third party products and product data
When planning patient cases with coDiagnostiX and during the practical implementation of such
planning the user may work with third party products and/or product data. Dental Wings GmbH, its
subsidiaries, or distribution partners disclaim any liability for damages in connection with or arising
from such third party product data or products being used within this scope.




                                                                                                          ESPAÑOL


                                                                                                                     ITALIANO
                                                                                                                     РУССКИЙ




                                                                                                                        7


ABOUT THIS GUIDE                                                                                                 7
1.2 License, trademarks and copyright
coDiagnostiX license
coDiagnostiX software is protected by a License Agreement and may be used or copied only in
accordance with the terms of this agreement. It is illegal to copy or use coDiagnostiX software on
any medium except those permitted in the License Agreement.

Some of the features offered by coDiagnostiX may require an additional license on your dongle.
Contact your local distributor for more information.

Availability
Some of the products mentioned in this guide may not be available in all countries.

Third-party software
coDiagnostiX software contains code from third-parties which is provided under specific licenses:
  Open Source Computer Vision Library (3-Clause BSD License)
  Omni Thread Library (3-Clause BSD License)
  Eigen (Mozilla Public License 2.0)

License conditions are available within coDiagnostiX. Open the Help (?) menu and select About >
Trademarks and 3rd party licenses to display them.

Trade names and trademarks
Dental Wings, DWOS, coDiagnostiX and gonyX are trademarks of Dental Wings.
Microsoft and Windows are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in
the United States and/or other countries.
Macintosh, Mac, Mac OS and iPad are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other
countries.
App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.
3Dconnexion is a registered trademark of 3Dconnexion GmbH, Germany.
All other trademarks and logos mentioned in this document are trademarks, registered trademarks
or logos of their respective owners.

Copyright
Dental Wings documents may not be reprinted or published, in whole or in part, without the written
                                                                                                            РУССКИЙ




authorization of Dental Wings.




8                                                                                        ABOUT THIS GUIDE
                                                                                                                   DEUTSCH
2. INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW


2.1 Intended use
coDiagnostiX is intended to be used as preoperative planning software for dental implant placement.




2.2 Device description and features
coDiagnostiX is a 3D implant planning software allowing the import and processing of the 3D (CB)CT
scan dataset (DICOM standard). Based on the finalized implant planning, the software allows for
export of data for the production of drill guides using 3D manufacturing systems or the analog gonyX




                                                                                                        ESPAÑOL
table. In the analog workflow the patient has to wear a scan template with reference pins during the




                                                                                                                   ITALIANO
(CB)CT scan.

Working with the software is based on a patient’s medical image data such as a CT (Computed
Tomography) and CBCT (Cone-Beam Computed Tomography) that is processed by coDiagnostiX after
being transferred via CD/DVD, network or various other storage mediums.

Planning is performed by the calculation of several views (such as virtual OPG or a three-dimensional
reconstruction of the image dataset), by the analysis of the image data and the placement of
implants, abutments and drilling sleeves.




2.2.1 Device variants and configuration

coDiagnostiX is available in a producer and a client version.

The client can export digital drill guide and virtual planning data only through a coDiagnostiX
producer version.

coDiagnostiX is an open software system. The library contains implant, abutment and sleeve systems
                                                                                                                   РУССКИЙ




from a large number of manufacturers.

For drill guide fabrication with the gonyX, a template plan from coDiagnostiX is required



                                                                                                                      9


INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                                                      9
2.2.2 Principles of operation

Implant planning with coDiagnostiX is part of an overall guided surgery workflow. There are two
principal workflows that can be realized with coDiagnostiX:

     Analog workflow using gonyX and its accessories
     Digital workflow using 3D manufacturing systems




                                                                                                           РУССКИЙ




10                                                                             INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
                                                                                                           DEUTSCH
2.2.2.1 Guided surgery workflow


The following chart outlines the positioning of coDiagnostiX within a guided surgery workflow.




                                                                                                 ESPAÑOL


                                                                                                           ITALIANO
                                                                                                           РУССКИЙ




                                                                                                           11


INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                                           11
2.2.2.2 coDiagnostiX workflow


This chart outlines the standard work steps within coDiagnostiX. For further details see chapter
STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING.




                                                                                                            РУССКИЙ




12                                                                              INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
                                                                                                              DEUTSCH
2.3 Accessories and products used in combination

Analog workflow using gonyX and its accessories

The use of the following products and accessories in combination with coDiagnostiX has been
validated:

gonyX
Device for scan template and drill guide fabrication by the dental laboratory.

gonyX accessories include:
  Straumann ® reference pin and templix reference plate
  Devices for scan template production.
  Straumann ® scan control bar




                                                                                                    ESPAÑOL
  Additional device for enhancement of quality of CT scans.




                                                                                                              ITALIANO
  Straumann ® generic sleeve positioner including closing lid
  Device for sleeve positioning with gonyX.

Other products may, in principle, be suitable as well. However, the user has to validate their com-
patibility with coDiagnostiX.



Digital workflow using 3D manufacturing systems

3D manufacturing system
There are many ways to produce drill guides with 3D manufacturing systems (e.g. 3D printing
system), provided the manufacturing system can read open STL format files and process
biocompatible material.

The digital workflow has been validated with the following materials and 3D manufacturing systems
(example):
  Objet Eden260V printer and Med610 material (Stratasys)
  Rapid prototyping machine D30N2 SN3 with FotoDentLED.Aimplant as material (Dreve/
  InnovationMediTech)
                                                                                                              РУССКИЙ




  FORMIGA P110 laser sintering system with synthetic powder material PA 2200 (EOS)
  Solflex 350 3D printer with Solflex med printing material (Zircado being the German
  way2production distributor)
  Varseo 26435 3D printer with VarseoWax Surgical Guide printing material (Bego)


                                                                                                              13


INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                                              13
For a complete list of validated materials and systems, contact Dental Wings.

Each 3D manufacturing system which fulfills the requirements above may, in principle, be suitable.
The user needs to ensure that the drill guide can be produced with sufficient accuracy and that the
material used for fabrication is suitable for the use as a drill guide in patients.



Input data requirements
The software supports a wide range of image sources, including Computed Tomography (CT) and
Cone-Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) as well as model scans from different sources. It is also
possible to work with other sliced image data or volume data.

The performance of coDiagnostiX depends on the quality and accuracy of the (CB)CT and model
scans that have been imported in the software. The user is solely responsible to ensure that the
quality of the data imported in the software is sufficient for proper performance of coDiagnostiX.
Relevant anatomical structures must be visible in the scans. (CB)CT devices must comply with the
recommendations of ICRP97 (International Commission on Radiological Protection).

Supporting information to assist in the provision of suitable input data for coDiagnostiX can be found
in chapter Supporting information for (CB)CT scans.




2.4 Indications
coDiagnostiX is an implant planning software tool intended for use by dental professionals who have
appropriate knowledge in implantology and surgical dentistry.

This software reads imaging information output from medical scanners such as (CB)CT scanners. It
allows preoperative simulation and evaluation of patient anatomy and dental implant placement.

For automated manufacturing of drill guides in the dental laboratory environment, coDiagnostiX
allows for export of data to 3D manufacturing systems. Alternatively, coDiagnostiX provides
printouts of template plans for the creation of drill guides using a manually operated gonyX table.
                                                                                                            РУССКИЙ




14                                                                              INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
                                                                                                                     DEUTSCH
2.5 Contraindications
coDiagnostiX is not intended to be used in direct contact with the patient nor is it intended to be used
with life-sustaining devices.

coDiagnostiX must only be applied if additional radiation dose from 3D radiology (compared to
conventional x-ray) can be justified. Contraindications applying to other medical devices used within
the scope of a guided surgery workflow have to be taken into consideration.




2.6 Safety
There is no physical, chemical, electrical, mechanical, biological or electromagnetic hazard related
to the software.




                                                                                                           ESPAÑOL


                                                                                                                     ITALIANO
Nevertheless, the software has several integrated warning functions designed to alert and remind
the user of his/her legal responsibility to plan precisely and verify all planning results.




2.7 Precautions
Please be aware that the user of coDiagnostiX software is solely responsible for the correctness,
accuracy and completeness of all data entered into the coDiagnostiX software.

Do not use datasets which can be created in spite of warning messages unless you fully understand
the consequences of those warnings and are sure that there will be no unacceptable risk for the
correctness and accuracy of your planning.

Automatic nerve detection does not guarantee exact and accurate nerve canal display. Make sure to
always verify the correct position of the nerve canal manually.

Always verify the correctness and accuracy of nerve canal display.
                                                                                                                     РУССКИЙ




If nerve definition is not clear due to poor image quality, the dataset must not be used.

Always maintain an appropriate safety distance to the nerve canal.



                                                                                                                     15


INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                                                     15
Datasets with reference pins in both jaws (maxilla and mandible): The automatic pin detection of
coDiagnostiX EASY cannot distinguish between pins in the maxilla and those in the mandible when
scanned together. This can result in inaccurate planning. Accordingly, do not use the EASY mode to
plan datasets with reference pins in both jaws (maxilla and mandible).

Automatic reference pin detection does not guarantee exact and accurate results. Make sure to
always verify automatically detected reference pins manually.

Always visually check and verify the correctness and accuracy of reference pin detection.

If pin detection is not clear due to poor image quality, the dataset must not be used.

Always maintain an appropriate distance around the implant.

Printouts containing images of the dataset are not intended for diagnostic purposes.

Patient data presented on the iPad are intended for presentation purposes only. Do not use such
data for diagnostic purposes.

The gonyX verification should be printed directly from coDiagnostiX to a calibrated printer.

Correct dimensioning of the digital drill guide and the selection of appropriate material lie within the
sole responsibility of the user.

Make sure that the inspection windows placed in the digitally designed drill guide do not affect the
stability of the final guide. Otherwise there is the risk of inaccurate drilling results which may
compromise patient safety.

When using a drill guide without sleeves, never drill directly through the guide. Always use
appropriate instruments such as drill handles to avoid chipping.

Inadequate drill guides may result in damage to vital anatomy at the time of surgical implant
placement.

Thoroughly check the congruency of the contours of the merged 3D objects in all views to ensure
                                                                                                              РУССКИЙ




correct and accurate alignment of both objects upon import. Matching of model scan data is a
prerequisite for digital drill guide design. Matching accuracy directly influences the accuracy of the
digitally designed drill guide.




16                                                                                INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
                                                                                                                    DEUTSCH
coDiagnostiX is not intended to be used in close proximity (within a distance of 1.5 meters) from the
patient. Make sure to comply with all applicable standards and technical regulations for any
computer hardware used together with coDiagnostiX. For example:
  Do not use multiple-socket extension cords.
  Do not touch the patient and simultaneously plugs, ports or other connecting parts of the
  hardware.
  Make sure that computer hardware which is used together with coDiagnostiX is at least 1.5 meters
  away from the patient.

Before placing the scan template or drill guide into the patient's mouth, make sure to prepare such
template or guide according to dental standard operating procedures and the instruction for use
provided for your material.

Bone loss values output by coPeriodontiX are calculated values representing the distance between
the points set by the user and are not intended for diagnostic use. The clinician should confirm actual




                                                                                                          ESPAÑOL


                                                                                                                    ITALIANO
probing depth measurements by physical examination.

It is the sole responsibility of the user to make sure that accessories and products used in
combination with coDiagnostiX are intended to be used for such purpose. Follow their instructions
for use.

Protect your data against loss, unauthorized access and unauthorized use.
  Secure your computer system by installing a malware scanner or firewall.
  Use a strong password to protect your computer system, storage media and presentation devices.
  Use data encryption to secure data on your computer system and storage media.
  Backup your data regularly to avoid loss of data.
  Use the anonymization function to protect patient personal data if required.

Archiving and restoring datasets in different versions of coDiagnostiX can cause compatibility
problems.
                                                                                                                    РУССКИЙ




                                                                                                                    17


INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                                                    17
2.8 Compatibility information


   Caution
Archiving and restoring datasets in different versions of coDiagnostiX can cause compatibility
problems.



Avoid using different versions of coDiagnostiX. If you have any problems, contact customer service.
In general, patient datasets from older versions of coDiagnostiX can be opened with coDiagnostiX 9.0
and above (backward compatibility). Check your dataset carefully to avoid minor incompatibilities
which might lead to failures in the planning of dental implants and/or the production of scan
templates or drill guides. Older versions of coDiagnostiX, however, cannot work with datasets from
coDiagnostiX 9.0 and above (no forward compatibility of older coDiagnostiX versions).



DWOS Synergy
coDiagnostiX versions 9.5 and 9.6 are compatible with DWOS versions 4 and 5. coDiagnostiX 9.7 is
compatible with DWOS versions 4, 5 and 6.




2.9 Data protection

Access to the software is restricted by the licensing system.

To protect data against loss or unauthorized use, several security mechanisms have been
implemented in coDiagnostiX:
  Data encryption during storage and transfer through the internet
  An archiving system to backup patient and planning data
  An on-demand anonymization function for privacy protection

Please bear in mind that the user is responsible for data protection on user side.
                                                                                                             РУССКИЙ




18                                                                               INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
                                                                                                              DEUTSCH
   Caution
Protect your data against loss, unauthorized access and unauthorized use.
  Secure your computer system by installing a malware scanner or firewall.
  Use a strong password to protect your computer system, storage media and presentation devices.
  Use data encryption to secure data on your computer system and storage media.
  Backup your data regularly to avoid loss of data.
  Use the anonymization function to protect patient personal data if required.




2.10 Further information
For further information, please refer to:
  gonyX Lab Manual
  coDiagnostiX User Help




                                                                                                    ESPAÑOL


                                                                                                              ITALIANO
  DWOS User Help




2.11 Installation


   Note
Do not plug the dongle into the computer until you are prompted to do so by the installation program.



Steps for installation
1. Insert the installation medium into the computer.
2. If the installation process does not start automatically, start the program manually by executing
   the file setup.exe on your installation medium.
3. Follow the instructions on the screen.




2.12 Disposal
                                                                                                              РУССКИЙ




Use existing disposal systems to dispose of the data carriers and their packaging.




                                                                                                              19


INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW                                                                               19
3. USER INTERFACE AND coDiagnostiX BASICS


The software user interface is based on the Microsoft® Windows® standard allowing you to control
the system easily by mouse. To become familiar with the system and the control elements such as
buttons, check boxes and edit controls, consult the user manual of your operating system.


coDiagnostiX start screen — basic functionalities




     Open dataset
     Opens the Patient Database (DICOM already imported).

     Create dataset (DICOM)
     Opens the DICOM Transfer dialog box to import DICOM data (e.g. from a CD) and to create a
     patient dataset.

     caseXchange/order management
     Provides direct access to the communication platform caseXchange. For users with enabled
     Order Management feature, access is provided to the Order Management instead.
                                                                                                             РУССКИЙ




     Management
     The coDiagnostiX Management section provides access to administrative functions such as
     backup or language setting.




20                                                                  USER INTERFACE AND coDiagnostiX BASICS
                                                                                                                DEUTSCH
     Archiving and restoring datasets in different versions of coDiagnostiX can cause compatibility
     problems. (See chapter Compatibility information.)

     Support and help
     The Support and Help Center provides centralized access for help, support and training. Here,
     you can start a remote support session, if necessary (active internet connection required).


     Main menu
     Provides access to database-related functions, other modules and the License Management.


     License and version numbers
     Your license number and the coDiagnostiX version number are shown both in the status bar on
     the start screen and in the About box (access from the main menu > Help (?) > About).




                                                                                                      ESPAÑOL
Updates




                                                                                                                ITALIANO
If updates are available, an information bar pops up to inform the user about pending updates.



coDiagnostiX planning screen (standard mode) — user interface




     Toolbar (for customizing, see chapter Toolbar)
                                                                                                                РУССКИЙ




     Views (for basic information and view manipulation, see chapter Views)
     Object tree (for tree functions and moving/manipulating objects, see chapter Object tree)
     Plan panel (for working with plans, see chapter Plans)



                                                                                                                21


USER INTERFACE AND coDiagnostiX BASICS                                                                   21
3.1 Toolbar




     Tools of the interactive planning workflow.


     Basic tools for view manipulation.



     Menu with complete set of functions.



Customizing the toolbar

Right-click on the toolbar and select Adjust to
open the dialog box.
  If necessary, use the combo box to toggle
  between the presets for the analog or digital
  workflow.
  To add further icons, drag and drop the icon
  from the box onto the toolbar.
  To remove icons from the toolbar, simply
  drag them off the toolbar (with the dialog
  box opened).

As the toolbar is customizable, any toolbar
references made within these Instructions for
Use relate to the standard toolbar
configuration comprising either the standard
analog or standard digital planning workflow
                                                                                            РУССКИЙ




presets.




22                                                 USER INTERFACE AND coDiagnostiX BASICS
                                                           DEUTSCH
3.2 Views


    Views are color-coded and can be
    displayed in other views as reference line
    with the respective color.


    Enlarge a view by clicking the Full Screen
    button or double-click the title bar.



    Move the Panoramic view inside and
    outside with the right scroll bar.




                                                 ESPAÑOL


                                                           ITALIANO
Moving views
  Enable the Move and Turn tool from the
  toolbar.
  Move the view with the left mouse button.
  Rotate the view with the right mouse button
 (3D view only).




                                                           РУССКИЙ




                                                           23


USER INTERFACE AND coDiagnostiX BASICS              23
Manipulating the views: most important tools


Description                                                               Symbol


Enables/disables the Move and Turn tool.




Enables/disables the Localizer tool.



Enables/disables the Zoom tool.
Alternatively, press SHIFT and scroll the mouse wheel to zoom in
and out.

Resets all views and fits contents to the view box in all views.



Toggles the visibility of the Reference lines in all 2D views.



Aligns the cross-sectional, tangential and axial views with the
axis of the currently selected implant (at least one implant
has to be planned).




                                                                                                            РУССКИЙ




24                                                                 USER INTERFACE AND coDiagnostiX BASICS
                                                                            DEUTSCH
3.3 Object tree
The object tree contains:

  Tree functions (e.g. add, delete)
  All the objects (e.g. implants, sleeves, nerve
  canals, measurements, model scans, drill
  guides)
  Tooth position panel (currently selected
  tooth position)
  Provides all the information about the
  implant, abutment, sleeve and/or virtual
  tooth for the given tooth position and allows
  to edit them.




                                                                  ESPAÑOL
  Density statistics




                                                                            ITALIANO
Moving/rotating objects
 Select the object in the object tree.
 In the object tree, activate the positioning
 mode.
 Move the object with the left mouse button.
 Rotate the object with the right mouse
 button (some objects only).

Objects: most important tree functions


 Description                                             Symbol


 Adds a new object (e.g. implant, measurement…).



 Enables/disables the positioning mode.
 As long as the positioning mode is not activated, the
 objects cannot be “touched” with the mouse.
                                                                            РУССКИЙ




 Deletes the selected object.




                                                                            25


USER INTERFACE AND coDiagnostiX BASICS                               25
3.4 Plans
Working with different plans
Planning data are managed in plans. You
may create several plans for one patient.
Use the combo box to browse your plans.



Plans can be:
  Newly created, deleted and copied
  (select from the Plan menu)
  Protected against changes (select Plan >
  Properties from the main menu and tick
  Protect this plan against changes). Such
  protection is reversible.
  Finalized (select Plan > Finalize from
  the main menu). No further
  modifications will be allowed. Create a
  copy of the plan if you have to change
  something subsequently.




                                                                                      РУССКИЙ




26                                           USER INTERFACE AND coDiagnostiX BASICS
                                                           DEUTSCH
4. STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING


Starting coDiagnostiX and loading a DICOM
case
  Start the coDiagnostiX software; ensure that
  the dongle is connected.
  Insert the DICOM data you received from the
  (CB)CT scanner into the computer's disc
  drive.



   Caution
Please be aware that the user of coDiagnostiX




                                                 ESPAÑOL
software is solely responsible for the




                                                           ITALIANO
correctness, accuracy and completeness of all
data entered into the coDiagnostiX software.




                                                           РУССКИЙ




                                                           27


STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                          27
4.1 Import DICOM data


     Click DICOM Transfer on the start screen.




     Select Import data from CD/DVD and click
     Import.
     In case of any problems (error messages,
     warnings, etc.), contact customer service.
     Choose if you would like to plan a case for
     maxilla or mandible. To plan both maxilla
     and mandible you need to create two
     separate plans.




coDiagnostiX switches to the standard
planning screen.



    Caution
Do not use datasets which can be created in
spite of warning messages unless you fully
understand the consequences of those
warnings and are sure that there will be no
unacceptable risk for the correctness and
                                                                                РУССКИЙ




accuracy of your planning.




28                                                 STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                           DEUTSCH
4.2 Align patient coordinate system


  Click Align patient coordinate system in the
  toolbar.




  Make the green plane coincide with the
  patient's occlusal plane and the red plane
  with the patient’s sagittal plane.
    Move the patient coordinate system (PCS)
    with the left mouse button.
    Rotate the PCS with the right mouse
    button




                                                 ESPAÑOL
  Click OK to save the alignment.




                                                           ITALIANO
                                                           РУССКИЙ




                                                           29


STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                          29
4.3 Define panoramic curve


     Click the Panoramic Curve icon in the
     toolbar.




     Grab the points with the left mouse button
     and move the curve according to the
     patient’s anatomy.
     To create additional points, click outside the
     existing five basic points.
     To delete additional points, right-click on the
     point and select Delete Point from the
     context menu. The five basic points cannot
     be deleted.




                                                                                    РУССКИЙ




30                                                     STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                           DEUTSCH
4.4 Import and match model scan data


  Click Add model scan in the toolbar.




  Click Load model scan and select the
  model scan file you want to import.

  Select the method to align the model scan.
  The standard method is alignment to
  another object. For other possible
  alignment options see the coDiagnostiX
  User Help.




                                                 ESPAÑOL


                                                           ITALIANO
  Select the registration object (segmentation
  of volume data or previously imported
  model scan) that you want to use for
  matching. Model scan and registration
  object must cover analogous anatomical
  regions.                                                 РУССКИЙ




                                                           31


STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                          31
     Define pairs of corresponding regions by
     clicking the affected region both on the
     model scan and on the registration object.
        For partially edentulous cases use the
        remaining teeth.
        For edentulous cases use temporary
        implants.

Pairs of corresponding regions should not lie
on an (approximately) straight line and must
be set at anatomically significant positions and
as far away from each other as possible.



     Click Next to perform automatic
     registration.




    Caution
Thoroughly check the congruency of the
contours of the merged 3D objects in all views
to ensure correct and accurate alignment of
both objects upon import. Matching of model
scan data is a prerequisite for digital drill
guide design. Matching accuracy directly
influences the accuracy of the digitally
designed drill guide.
                                                                                РУССКИЙ




Inadequate drill guides may result in damage
to vital anatomy at the time of surgical implant
placement.




32                                                 STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                               DEUTSCH
  If the result is not satisfying, align the model
  scan manually in all 4 views. To do so, move
  the scan contours with the mouse or use the
  Fine Alignment function by clicking the Fine
  Alignment icon in the toolbar of the wizard.
  Click the Finish button to apply the scan
  import to your case.

For more detailed information, consult the
coDiagnostiX User Help.




                                                     ESPAÑOL


                                                               ITALIANO
                                                               РУССКИЙ




                                                               33


STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                              33
4.5 Detect nerve canal


     Click the Nerve Canal icon from the toolbar to add
     the nerve canal objects. The positioning mode is
     activated automatically.

     In the object tree, select the nerve canal which shall
     be detected. Set the entry point at the mental
     foramen and the exit point at the mandibular
     foramen by clicking directly in the views.

Automatic detection
 Click Detect in the object tree. coDiagnostiX will
 automatically detect the nerve canal.


Manual definition
 Set additional nerve canal points by clicking directly
 in the views and/or move existing points as
 required. Sequence and diameter of the nerve
 canal points may be adjusted through the context
 menu.



   Caution
Always verify the correctness and accuracy of nerve
canal display.

Automatic nerve detection does not guarantee exact
and accurate nerve canal display. Make sure to
always verify the correct position of the nerve canal
manually.

If nerve definition is not clear due to poor image
                                                                                           РУССКИЙ




quality, the dataset must not be used.

Always maintain an appropriate safety distance to the
nerve canal.




34                                                            STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                            DEUTSCH
4.6 Detect gonyX reference pins


gonyX registration is required for the analog
workflow only.



  Click the gonyX Registration icon from the
  toolbar.




  Use the Automatic Search button to start
  automatic pin detection.




                                                  ESPAÑOL


                                                            ITALIANO
  Check your pin detection result for each
  reference pin. To do so, activate the
  reference pin in the work panel and check,
  in each single view, the correct alignment of
  the blue pin with the white pin in the scan.
  Adjust as necessary.

  Adjusting reference pins with the mouse
    Move the reference pin with the left
    mouse button.
    Rotate the reference pin with the right
    mouse button.

  Confirm reference pin validation.
                                                            РУССКИЙ




                                                            35


STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                           35
Registration reliability
The indicator shows the quality of reference
pin registration:


Color

Green    Sufficient quality.

Yellow   Poor quality. Re-check pin positioning.
         Increase safety distances in planning to
         make allowance for possible inaccuracies.

Red      Insufficient quality. No pin registration
         possible.




    Caution
Datasets with reference pins in both jaws
(maxilla and mandible): The automatic pin
detection of coDiagnostiX EASY cannot
distinguish between pins in the maxilla and
those in the mandible when scanned together.
This can result in inaccurate planning.
Accordingly, do not use the EASY mode to
plan datasets with reference pins in both jaws
(maxilla and mandible).

Automatic reference pin detection does not
guarantee exact and accurate results. Make
sure to always verify automatically detected
reference pins manually.

Always visually check and verify the
correctness and accuracy of reference pin
detection.

If pin detection is not clear due to poor image
                                                                                  РУССКИЙ




quality, the dataset must not be used.




36                                                   STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                           DEUTSCH
4.7 Plan implants


  Click the Add Implant icon from the toolbar.
  The Implant Database opens.


  Select the implant and the tooth position(s)
  where the implant(s) shall be placed. Click
  OK and the database closes.




                                                 ESPAÑOL


                                                           ITALIANO
  Adjust the implant position. The positioning
  mode is already activated.



Adjusting the implant
  Move the implant with the left mouse button.
  Rotate the implant with the right mouse
  button.



To support correct implant positioning, align
the views to the implant axis. This allows you
to rotate 360° around the implant in the
tangential view.
Always verify the correct position of the
implants.
                                                           РУССКИЙ




   Caution
Always maintain an appropriate distance
around the implant.



                                                           37


STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                          37
4.8 Plan sleeves


     Select your implant in the object tree and
     click the Edit Sleeves icon in the toolbar.




     The dialog box opens.
     Select a sleeve system from the list.
     Adjust the parameters as desired.

Observe all instructions provided by the sleeve
system manufacturer.




Generic sleeve system
coDiagnostiX offers a generic sleeve system.
This system works with presets and can be
used to define and configure sleeve systems
which are not pre-installed. For a detailed
description see the coDiagnostiX User Help.

Thoroughly verify all data before storing or
using a preset for a generic sleeve system.



   Caution
Please be aware that the user of coDiagnostiX
software is solely responsible for the
correctness, accuracy and completeness of all
data entered into the coDiagnostiX software.
                                                                                РУССКИЙ




38                                                 STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                             DEUTSCH
4.9 Design digital drill guide


This step is used in the digital workflow only.

Preparation
  Complete your planning.
  Scan the master model and import this
  scan. The model scan must not include any
  wax-up or prosthetic setup.
  Match the model scan and the
  corresponding segmentation.




                                                   ESPAÑOL


                                                             ITALIANO
    Caution
Thoroughly check the congruency of the
contours of the merged 3D objects in all views
to ensure correct and accurate alignment of
both objects upon import. Matching of model
scan data is a prerequisite for digital drill
guide design. Matching accuracy directly
influences the accuracy of the digitally
designed drill guide.

Inadequate drill guides may result in damage
to vital anatomy at the time of surgical implant
placement.
                                                             РУССКИЙ




                                                             39


STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                            39
Design wizard
 Click the Drill Guide icon in the toolbar to
 open the wizard.
 Decide if you want to create a completely
 new digital drill guide or use an existing
 guide as template.
 Define the insertion direction for the drill
 guide. If you are working with the dual scan
 method, tick Use bottom side of dual scan.
 If required, define regions for bone support.
 Define contact surfaces and adjust sleeve
 mount settings. If required, draw contact
 area for palatal support.
     Set offset, wall thickness and connector
     thickness.
     Add inspection windows (optional).
     Add label text (optional).
     Finish your guide.



Export
  Export your drill guide (producer version
  only).
  Make sure that the drill guide you are going
  to export represents the final planning
  state.



For further information, see the coDiagnostiX
User Help.
                                                                              РУССКИЙ




40                                               STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                                                                                     DEUTSCH
Accuracy
General prerequisite for accurate implant placement results is the compliance by the user with all
instructions given by the software manufacturer as well as an accurate planning with coDiagnostiX
on the part of the user.

After prior implant planning with coDiagnostiX, the accuracy of the drill guides and the location of
the surgical site depend on the following factors:
  The quality of the (CB)CT/model scan data
  The precision of aligning model scan data with (CB)CT data by the user
  Errors in design of the drill guide software model such as using incorrect sleeves or inaccurate
  sleeve placement
  Errors in production of drill guide by the laboratory
  Failure to check fit of the drill guide on the model prior to use




                                                                                                           ESPAÑOL
  Failure to check fit of the drill guide on the patient prior to surgery




                                                                                                                     ITALIANO
  Drill guide incorrectly placed in the patient’s mouth, resulting in inaccurate fit and inter-operative
  movement
  Inaccurate fit of the guided surgical instruments with the sleeves of the drill guide; instrument
  wear or incorrect sleeve selection can result in a loose fit and positional inaccuracy.



   Caution
Correct dimensioning of the digital drill guide and the selection of appropriate material lie within the
sole responsibility of the user.

Make sure that the inspection windows placed in the digitally designed drill guide do not affect the
stability of the final guide. Otherwise there is the risk of inaccurate drilling results which may
compromise patient safety.

When using a drill guide without sleeves, never drill directly through the guide. Always use
appropriate instruments such as drill handles to avoid chipping.



Please note that you are also responsible for the selection of an appropriate and calibrated 3D
manufacturing system and the correct fabrication of the drill guide.
                                                                                                                     РУССКИЙ




                                                                                                                     41


STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                                                                                    41
4.10 Print protocols


In the toolbar, click on the arrow of the Print
icon in order to open the menu.

Most important print protocols
 Template plan: Required for drill guide
 fabrication with gonyX (analog workflow
 only).
 gonyX verification: Required to check the
 setting of the gonyX coordinates and to verify
 the final drill guide (analog workflow only).
 Surgical protocol: Protocol listing the
 sequence of surgical instruments to be used
 as specified by the selected guided surgery
 system (selected manufacturers only).
 Print all: Defines a selection of protocols to
 be printed in one step.



   Caution
Printouts containing images of the dataset are
not intended for diagnostic purposes.

The gonyX verification should be printed
directly from coDiagnostiX to a calibrated
printer.
Note that a gonyX verification protocol that is
not printed on a calibrated printer, but saved
as PDF instead, will not be calibrated.
                                                                               РУССКИЙ




42                                                STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                            DEUTSCH
4.11 coPeriodontiX
coPeriodontiX is a user-friendly tool to
calculate the distance between the cement-
enamel junction and the bone level in six
directions. This is done with the help of high-
resolution (CB)CT data. The module offers a
workflow which guides the user through the
individual program steps.



    Caution
Bone loss values output by coPeriodontiX are
calculated values representing the distance




                                                  ESPAÑOL
between the points set by the user and are not




                                                            ITALIANO
intended for diagnostic use. The clinician
should confirm actual probing depth
measurements by physical examination.


Open the module to start periodontal
charting
  Click Open dataset on the start screen.
  Select the dataset and choose the Open
  with: coPeriodontiX option at the bottom of
  the dialog box.




                                                            РУССКИЙ




                                                            43


STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                           43
Define panoramic curve
 Select the type of jaw (maxilla or mandible).
 Define the panoramic curve by placing
 panoramic curve points (see chapter
 Panoramic Curve).




Define the tooth coordinate system
The coordinate system can be moved with the
left mouse button and rotated with the right
mouse button.

Carry out the following steps for each tooth
position:
  Select the tooth position in the dental chart.
  Roughly position the coordinate system by
  clicking the desired tooth in the virtual OPG.
  Fine-align within the three basic planes.



Set measuring points
Calculation is performed, starting from the
tooth axis, in six directions (vestibular, oral,
vestibular-distal, oral-mesial, vestibular-
mesial, oral-distal). Two points are captured
for each direction (cement-enamel junction,
apical point: bony pocket base).

This way, four points can be set in one
sectional plane.
                                                                                 РУССКИЙ




The current point to be defined is illustrated in
the chart on the right side both graphically and
as text.




44                                                  STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                           DEUTSCH
Results
Radiographic vertical bone loss values are
calculated and grouped in categories. Ranges
for the categories can be defined by the user
with the cogwheel button.




Print results
coPeriodontiX offers two types of print




                                                 ESPAÑOL
reports:




                                                           ITALIANO
  Results
  Screenshots

  Click the Print Report button to select the
  type of print report you want to output
  (results or screenshots).
  Click the Print button to print your results
  or Save as PDF.



   Caution
Printouts containing images of the dataset are
not intended for diagnostic purposes.
                                                           РУССКИЙ




                                                           45


STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING                          45
4.12 DWOS Synergy
DWOS Synergy is an interface for
communication between coDiagnostiX and
DWOS that makes prosthetic design data from
DWOS available in coDiagnostiX and, in turn,
sends implant planning information from
coDiagnostiX to the DWOS station.

Collaboration is possible:
- in local networks
- through the internet (with a DWOS Synergy
  account)



DWOS side
 Create an order.
 DWOS 4 & 5: Indication group: Others;
 Indication: coDiagnostiX abutment
 DWOS 6: Synergy order
 In the CAD Modellation module, initiate the
 Synergy session by opening the DWOS
 Synergy dialog and specifying the local
 server/online recipient.
 Inform the recipient (DWOS Synergy partner)
 about the pending case.



coDiagnostiX side
  Open the coDiagnostiX dataset for this
  patient.
  In the planning view, click the Synergy icon
  and connect with the shared dataset.
  Match the surface data with the patient's
  DICOM data.
                                                                              РУССКИЙ




46                                               STEP-BY-STEP CASE PLANNING
                                                                                                               DEUTSCH
5. SAFETY CHECK


  Always align all 2D views with the implant
  axis and rotate around the implant to ensure
  correct positioning and to avoid any
  collisions.




                                                                                                     ESPAÑOL


                                                                                                               ITALIANO
  Always consult collision warning and critical
  nerve distance warning.




Distance/collision warnings will be displayed when an element is placed such that the distance to
other elements is less than a defined value. The user may still place the element where desired to
facilitate the surgical planning process. Final element placement must be consistent with patient
anatomy and the judgment of the clinician.
                                                                                                               РУССКИЙ




                                                                                                               47


SAFETY CHECK                                                                                            47
                             Implant to implant       Implant to nerve canal    Sleeve to sleeve

Type                         Distance check           Distance check            Collision check

Adjustable by user           Yes                      Yes                       No

Default value                3 mm                     2 mm                      0 mm

Range                        0 - 10 mm                0 – 10 mm                 n/a




   Caution
Always maintain an appropriate safety distance to the nerve canal.

Always maintain an appropriate distance around the implant.



     Always verify automatic nerve canal
     detection manually.
     Always check that surface data (e.g. model
     scan) have been correctly and precisely
     aligned to the volume data (DICOM data).



     If the analog workflow is used, always ensure correct fit of scan template during radiology.
     Always give the information concerning (CB)CT scans (accessible via the Help menu in the
     software) to the radiologist before the first scan.
     Control all automatic functions of the software.
     After planning is completed, always finalize the plan (Plan > Finalize). Make sure that only final
     plans are sent to production and/or used to export data (e.g. drill guides) for production.
     Check all printouts to ensure that they belong to the corresponding finalized plan.
     Backup your data at regular intervals to avoid loss of data due to system crash or hardware failure.
                                                                                                                  РУССКИЙ




48                                                                                                 SAFETY CHECK
                                                                                                 DEUTSCH
6. DISTRIBUTORS AND SERVICE


In case of questions, please contact your local distributor.
Alternatively, contact coDiagnostiX.support@dental-wings.com (in English or German).




                                                                                       ESPAÑOL


                                                                                                 ITALIANO
                                                                                                 РУССКИЙ




                                                                                                 49


DISTRIBUTORS AND SERVICE                                                                  49
7. TECHNICAL DATA


7.1 Operating and storage conditions
To ensure intactness and operational readiness of hardware elements (dongle), data carriers and
other material provided for installation and use of coDiagnostiX, comply with the following
conditions:


Operating & storage conditions


Operating temperature            10°C to 40°C


Relative humidity                20 % to 80 %


Storage temperature              -20°C to 40°C




7.2 Hardware and software requirements

Mandatory hardware/software


Storage                            Installation: up to 5 GB of hard disk space required
                                   Patient cases: on average 100 MB of hard disk space required per patient
                                   case

Memory                             Minimum of 8 GB RAM required


Peripheral devices                 Monitor
                                   Keyboard
                                   2-button mouse (mouse with scroll wheel recommended)
                                   DVD drive
                                   One free USB port
                                                                                                                     РУССКИЙ




Operating system                   Microsoft® Windows® 10 64-bit recommended (other supported operating
                                   systems: Microsoft® Windows® 10 32-bit, Windows® 8 64-bit and 32-bit,
                                   Windows® 7 64-bit and 32-bit)




50                                                                                                  TECHNICAL DATA
                                                                                                                            DEUTSCH
Mandatory hardware/software


                                Additional requirements for running coDiagnostiX on Apple Mac OS X:
                                  Macintosh computer with Intel® processor
                                  Mac OS X 10.9 or newer
                                  ‘Parallels Desktop’ or 'VMWare Fusion' for Macintosh including valid
                                  Windows® license (software to be purchased separately)

Screen resolution                 Minimum: 1680 x 1050 pixels
                                  Recommended: 1920 x 1080 pixels or higher
                                  Maximum resolution per view (3D reconstruction, virtual OPG, etc.):
                                  4096 x 3072 pixels




Minimum requirements have been specified to allow for smooth operation of coDiagnostiX. Under




                                                                                                                  ESPAÑOL
certain circumstances, the software might also run on other configurations.




                                                                                                                            ITALIANO
Optional hardware/software


Peripheral devices                DVD burner
                                  Printer
                                  3D mouse: 3D mouse by 3Dconnexion

Document reader                   PDF viewer


Internet connection             Required, for instance, for online updates, remote support, online transfer and
                                DWOS Synergy

Network connection              Required for using the optional Network Database SQL or Network License


Additional requirements for       Microsoft® SQL Server® required
coDiagnostiX Network Database
SQL module

Additional requirements for       Additional computer with a free USB slot running Microsoft® Windows® which
coDiagnostiX Network License      acts as a dongle server (a server running 24/7 is recommended, but not
                                                                                                                            РУССКИЙ




                                  necessary)
                                  Permanent (W)LAN connection to the dongle server while running
                                  coDiagnostiX on the client computer
                                  Optional: Shared network drive to store the database



                                                                                                                            51


TECHNICAL DATA                                                                                                       51
Optional hardware/software


Additional requirements for        DWOS Synergy allows for case sharing between coDiagnostiX and DWOS
DWOS Synergy                       stations. For compatibility of coDiagnostiX and DWOS versions see chapter
                                   Compatibility information.




Network configuration


caseXchange                          Client: port 80, outgoing


Online Updater                       Client: port 80, outgoing


Network Database SQL               To configure your network for use with SQL Server®, see the information
                                   provided by Microsoft or contact your Dental Wings support.

Network dongle                       Client: TCP port 54237, UDP port 21945, both outgoing
                                     Server: TCP port 54237, UDP port 21945, both incoming




DWOS Synergy
Install at least one Synergy server within your network. For information on where to download the
latest local Synergy server release, contact coDiagnostiX customer support (see DISTRIBUTORS AND
SERVICE).
To be able to reach the Synergy server from other clients, the following ports need to be activated (in
most cases, this is done automatically by the installation program):


DWOS Synergy server


Port 15672              RabbitMQ server administration interface                             Incoming


Port 61613              STOMP protocol – communication with coDiagnostiX                     Incoming


Port 5672               AMQP protocol – communication with DWOS                              Incoming
                                                                                                                         РУССКИЙ




Port 61615              STOMP message queue dispatcher                                       Incoming


Port 55555 (UDP)        Broadcast query                                                      Outgoing




52                                                                                                      TECHNICAL DATA
                                                                                                         DEUTSCH
DWOS Synergy server


Port 55556 (UDP)      Broadcast listener                                            Incoming




coDiagnostiX workstation


Port 80               HTTP protocol – Synergy over the internet. Not required for   Outgoing
                      communication with local Synergy server.

Port 443              SSL protocol – Synergy over the internet. Not required for    Outgoing
                      communication with local Synergy server.

Port 61613            STOMP protocol – communication with coDiagnostiX              Outgoing




                                                                                               ESPAÑOL


                                                                                                         ITALIANO
Port 61615            STOMP message queue dispatcher                                Outgoing


Port 55555 (UDP)      Broadcast query                                               Outgoing


Port 55556 (UDP)      Broadcast listener                                            Incoming




                                                                                                         РУССКИЙ




                                                                                                         53


TECHNICAL DATA                                                                                    53
7.3 Supporting information for (CB)CT scans
The production of (CB)CT scans lies within the full responsibility of the radiologist or appropriately
qualified personnel. However, the following requirements have to be observed to support image data
processing and implant planning with coDiagnostiX:

Preparation
  All metal parts which are not fixed must be removed from the patient’s mouth.
  When using the analog workflow with the gonyX:
    Have the patient wear a scan template with reference pins during radiology. The reference pins
    must be completely visible in the (CB)CT scan (one slice above the pin is sufficient).
    Make sure that all components attached to the scan template are firmly fixed.

   Caution
Before placing the scan template or drill guide into the patient's mouth, make sure to prepare such
template or guide according to dental standard operating procedures and the instruction for use
provided for your material.



     Block the opposite jaw, for instance, with a wooden applicator or silicone.
     Insert dental cotton rolls to keep lips and cheeks away from the gingiva.
     Make sure the tongue does not touch the palate.

Positioning
  Align the occlusal plane to the scan plane as accurately as possible.

Important CT scanning parameters
  A gantry angle of 0° is recommended to achieve the best quality for image reconstruction.
  Do NOT vary reconstruction parameters within a series (constant value for X and Y axis).
  Set a high-resolution bone algorithm (actual setting depends on the device)
  Parameters for a complete dataset when using dynamic mode:
    Slices: 0.5 mm to 1.0 mm (0.5 mm recommended)
  When using spiral mode, reconstruction to 1.0 mm slices or less (0.5 mm is recommended).
  KV: approx. 110 to 130
                                                                                                            РУССКИЙ




  mA: approx. 20 to 120




54                                                                                         TECHNICAL DATA
                                                                                                                   DEUTSCH
Storage of image data
  Only axial slices are required.
  DICOM III format, no raw data.

Visualization of motion artifacts
In case of CT scans with scan template, motion artifacts can be visualized by attaching a scan control
bar (available as accessory) to the template prior to scanning.




                                                                                                         ESPAÑOL


                                                                                                                   ITALIANO
                                                                                                                   РУССКИЙ




                                                                                                                   55


TECHNICAL DATA                                                                                              55
8. SYMBOLS ON THE PRODUCT AND/OR PACKAGING




         Caution, consult instructions for use for       The CE sign indicates that the product
         important cautionary information                complies with applicable EU regulations



         Consult instructions for use                    Indicates the medical device manufacturer


         Caution: Federal law restricts this device to
         sale by or on the order of a licensed
         healthcare practitioner




                                                                                                     РУССКИЙ




56                                                       SYMBOLS ON THE PRODUCT AND/OR PACKAGING
                                           www.dentalwings.com
                                           www.codiagnostix.com


Dental Wings GmbH
Duesseldorfer Platz 1
09111 Chemnitz                                                coDiagnostiX 9 INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
Germany                                                                    2016-12-02 P003.02 v11.1



© Dental Wings GmbH 2016. All rights reserved.
