                  coDiagnostiX Workflow


    The workflow in coDiagnostiX can be found on the top tool bar in the
   software. The workflow is a step by step sequence for case planning. If
    your software looks different, right click on the tool bar, select adjust,
      and drag the icons around until they match the above example
       Step 1: Setup gonyX Registration. This operation registers the 3 reference
       pins from the scan appliance and allows for the surgical guide fabrication.
       If your intention is for treatment planning only then this step is not required
       Step 2: Setting the Panoramic Curve. When setting the curve, use the
       mouse wheel to scroll through the axial slices until the crest of the ridge is
       present. Drag the handles until the Incisal Point is between the centrals,
       the unlabeled 2 points should be placed on the first bicuspids, and the
       numbered points should be placed where the third molars are or would be
       present.
       Step 3: Nerve Detection. When working on the mandible, the software give
       the user the ability to plot the nerve canal. If necessary multiple canals
       can be plotted for additional branches of the canal.
       Step 4: The Implant library can be found by clicking on the implant icon in
       the workflow. In the implant library all of the different manufacturers and
       model series can be found and selected. Click on the desired implant,
       select the tooth position on the bottom of the library and click OK

       Step 5: The Abutment tool is purely for diagnostic purposes. This allows the
       user to place stock abutments or design an angled abutment virtually to
       see if the desired implant position is prosthetically ideal or acceptable

       Step 6: Placing the sleeves in the plan is important in the guide fabrication
       process. There are a variety of sleeve offsets which will allow for flapless
       surgical technique to be implemented if desired, or a lower sleeve offset
       for a more restricted surgical site in the posterior of the mouth. This step is
       not required if there is not going to be a surgical guide fabricated
       Step 7: The Printer will allow you to print out a variety of different printouts
       including details sheets for each implant, gonyX sheets for sleeve
       placement, and the surgical protocol to guide you through the guided
       surgical kit

Any questions please contact Brandon Dickerman
   781.828.2808 www.dickermandental.com
