INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
 DYNAMIC ABUTMENT SOLUTIONS LIBRARY
                                      INST_CODIAGNOSTIX_2023_01_EN
1.     CASE DESCRIPTION


To plan a case in coDiagnostiX, the software offers two work modes: Expert and
Easy. The easy mode works as a Wizard taking you step by step. The following
instructions show a case created in the Expert mode.

To start a case, select “new”. The software then asks for a path where it can find the
DICOM files for transfer.




In the next step, define the patient and the case.




                                                                                         1
    Once you have defined the case, the general software interface appears with all the
    available planning options. In the upper part (shown in red) you can see all the flow
    stages of the project you need to follow.




    2. STEP 1. ALIGNING THE PATIENT
    COORDINATES SYSTEM




                          Click on Align the patient coordinates system in the tool bar.




    The green plane must coincide with the patient’s occlusal plane and the red plane with
    the patient’s saggital plane. Move the patient coordinates system (PCS) with the left
    button on the mouse. Turn the PCS with the right button on the mouse.

    Accept to save the configuration.




2
STEP 2. PANORAMIC CURVE




          Click on the Panoramic curve icon in the tool bar. Take the
          points left clicking on the mouse and move the curve to suit
          the patient’s anatomy.




STEP 3. DETECT THE NERVE CANAL



        Click on the Nerve canal icon in the tool bar and add the
        objects of the nerve canal. Establish the entry point on the
        mental hole and the exit point on the mandible hole by clicking
        directly on the views. coDiagnostiX is able to automatically
        detect the nerve canal. Click on “Detect”.




                                                                          3
    STEP 4. IMPORT AND COMBINE THE
    MODEL SCAN DATA



                       Click on Add model scan in the tool bar. Select the source for
                       the model scan file (CAD file, segmentation, DWOS Connect
                       order).



    Choose the alignment method for the model scan. The standard method is alignment
    with another object. For other alignment options, see the coDiagnostiX Help section.




    Set the pairs of corresponding regions by clicking on the affected area, both on the
    scanned model and the registered object.




4
End to complete the alignment.




STEP 5. PLANNING AN IMPLANT



                   Click on the Add implant icon the tool bar. The master database
                   opens. Choose the implant and the tooth positions where you
                   want to place the implants.




                                                                                     5
    Adjust the position of the implant as desired. Move the implant by left clicking on the
    mouse. Turn the implant by clicking on the right button.




6
If your case requires, you can add anchor pins. coDiagnostiX deals with this item as
if it were an implant. Therefore, we can elect the Dynamic Abutment Solutions anchor
pins in the same way we selected an implant.




STEP 6. CHOOSING THE SLEEVES



                    To create the surgical guide using sleeves, click on edit
                    sleeves on the tool bar -> Generic sleeves system.




Choose the DAS sleeve you want and the offset for the sleeve.




                                                                                       7
    Important: By default, offsets from 9 mm to 13 mm, each 0.5 mm apart, are available.
    The offsets permitted for each implant are established in the PDF Work Offsets by
    Compatibility. It important to choose an offset suitable for each procedure.



    STEP 7. SURGICAL GUIDE DESIGN




                         Click on the Add surgical guide icon in the tool bar to open the
                         wizard. Choose whether you want to create a completely new
                         surgical guide or use an existing guide as a template.




8
Then choose the insertion direction for the surgical guide and define the contact
surfaces.




The software opens a new window and allows you to change the parameters such as
minimum thickness of the guide, connector thickness, etc.




                                                                                    9
     7.1 USING THE INSPECTION WINDOWS
     AS AN OPENING FOR THE CUT SLEEVE


     As the software creates an interface for the cylindrical sleeve and we need an opening
     for the cut sleeve, you can make use of the inspection windows to generate a window
     which allows the lateral insertion of the tools if necessary.




     STEP 8. PRINT PROTOCOLS


                           Choose the print icon on the tool bar to see the menu.
                           The software offers different protocols with different case
                           information.




10
11
