                                  THE ESSENCE COLLECTION




GUIDED SURGERY
Krzysztof Chmielewski, DDS, MSc
Maja Chmielewska, DDS
2 | Guided Surgery
Content
04.    Preface & Introduction
10.    CBCT examination
18.    Radiological template
20.    Dual Scan Technique
34.    Digital impression
42.    Implant planning
68.    Guided surgery
76.    Guides - types and technology
82.    Disinfection and sterilization
110.   Clinical cases
228.   How to order a template for navigation?
4 | Guided Surgery




                     Preface
                     As an implantologist with over 25 years of experience, I have always been devoted to mine
                     Patients. They deserve the best treatment quality with the highest predictability, precision
                     and medical standards. Implant planning is a key element in achieving a predictable treat-
                     ment result and patient satisfaction.

                     The correct placement of the implant is determined by a prosthetic restoration. The dentist
                     must therefore make the right plan and use the right tools to transfer this position to the
                     patient’s mouth in accordance with the planned crown, bridge or other complex reconstruc-
                     tion. Treatments performed with the help of computer navigation become the gold stan-
                     dard. Thanks to this technology, the dentist can place the implant with the highest precision.
                     However, new technologies require time and commitment to get to know them and imple-
                     ment them successfully.

                     This guide was created in response to the needs of doctors who expect support in the plan-
                     ning of implant treatment and learn about the techniques and tools used to carry out the
                     treatment using guided surgery templates.
                     Now, with my Team, I can help my Colleagues, offering them services of remote planning and
                     printing of the highest quality templates for computer navigation.

                     We are giving you this guide, created to help you in the smooth implementation of computer
                     navigation to your practice.


                     Have a good read,




                     Krzysztof Chmielewski, DDS, MSC
                     Master of Science in Oral Implantology
                     ITI Fellow
                                                                                                   5




Guided surgery requires not only surgical skills but also knowledge about the tech-
nology, software application and crucial steps influencing the precision of the
surgical treatment.
Implementation of digital protocols can be easier than you think.



                                                          Maja Chmielewska, DDS
                                                                     ITI Member
                                                                                      dentalprint3D.pl
6 | Guided Surgery




Introduction
Nowadays, patients expect both a short treatment time and beautiful aesthetic results. The      *Computer-guided surgery was more accurate than a freehand approach for placing im-
integrated workflow, helps clinicians and technicians to go to the planning of implants based   plants into bilateral edentulous zones in the posterior maxilla.
on the optimal position of prosthetic restoration, while allowing delivery of the temporary
                                                                                                *Noharet R, Pettersson A, Bourgeois D. Accuracy of implant placement in the posterior maxilla as
restorations that meet the patient’s expectations for a beautiful smile immediately after the
                                                                                                related to 2 types of surgical guides: a pilot study in the human cadaver. J Prosthet Dent. 2014
surgery.                                                                                        Sep;112(3):526-32.
Knowledge of the process, tools and technologies associated with the design of a computer
navigation template is necessary to achieve high predictability and precision in guided sur-
gery.




                                                                                                **Clinical accuracy of surgical guides is affected by:

                                                                                                •    Errors in image acquisition.
                                                                                                •    Errors in orientation and cross-sectional principles.
                                                                                                •     Errors in surgical guide manufacturing.
                                                                                                •      Type of surgical guide support or guide fixation.
                                                                                                •       Full versus partial guidance during the osteotomy preparation.
                                                                                                •        Full versus partial guidance during implant placement.

                                                                                                *Maria A. Mora, DDS, MSa,* , Douglas L. Chenin, DDS ,Roger M. Arce, DDS, MS, PhD / Software Tools
                                                                                                and Surgical Guides in Dental- Implant-Guided Surgery / Dent Clin N Am 58 (2014) 597–626
                                                                                         7
REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD OFFER GUIDED SURGERY:

BENEFITS FOR PATIENTS

Safety
• Optimal positioning of implants at safe distances from important anatomical structures
    such as vessels, nerves or maxillary sinuses.
• Safe conducting of flapless procedures.

Comfort
• Reducing the time of surgery.
• Smaller postoperative reactions.
• Often no pain after surgery.
• Comfort of treatment through the use of precise temporary restorations screwed to the
   implants immediately after the procedure.

Financial benefits
• Optimization of costs by reducing the number and duration of visits.
• Reduce treatment costs by reducing the number of augmentation procedures.
• Optimal selection of prosthetic elements at the planning stage.

BENEFITS FOR DOCTORS

Safety and comfort of treatments
• Optimal planning of implant positions due to anatomical structures and bone quality.
• Reducing the number of complications.
• Reducing the time of surgery.
• The ability to safely conduct flapless procedures.
• Predictable procedures with immediate implant loading.

Financial and marketing benefits for the Doctor
• Optimization of visit duration. It is possible to carry out more treatments at the same
    time.
• Optimization of the costs of prosthetic elements by reducing the number of angulated
    or individual abutments.
• Better communication with the Patient and building trust through the application of
    modern technologies.
• Distinguishing factor from the competition.




                                                                          dentalprint3D.pl
8 | Guided Surgery




Workflow
                                                                                                Thanks to dedicated software, we combine images from the CBCT study together with a
                                                                                                digital image of teeth and gums, which allows for very precise planning of the implant’s po-
                                                                                                sition relative to the planned prosthetic restoration and neighboring teeth and anatomical
                                                                                                structures.

                                                                                                Transfer of the planned implant position to the oral cavity is carried out using a computer
                                                                                                navigation template. The design is carried out in the same dedicated software. There are
Brief Introduction                                                                              many types of templates and each of them is designed for the needs of an individual patient.
                                                                                                They can be milled or printed. Before the surgery, the template is disinfected or sterilized in
Preparation for guided surgery requires the collection of information on hard and soft tissue   a suitable process. During the procedure, the surgeon prepares the implant bed using the
in the oral cavity. We collect this data by performing a computed tomography scan, taking       template as a guide for the drills, thus obtaining the axis, inclination and depth of the implant
impressions and/or scanning the tissue within the oral cavity using intraoral scanners (IOS).   preparation as planned. In the most advanced systems, the implant is also inserted via the
Scanning of the analog models supplements the digital workflow.                                 template to obtain the most optimal position.
             9




dentalprint3D.pl
10 | Guided Surgery




CT/CBCT
            11




dentalprint3D.pl
12 | Guided Surgery

                                                                                              The part of the CT apparatus, supporting the source of radiation and the detectors is called
                                                                                              the gantry. Gantry angle is the angle at which the gantry of the apparatus is set during the
                                                                                              examination. This however applies to CT scanners and in case of CBCT - gantry angle mes-




Introduction
                                                                                              sages visible in planning softwares can be skipped most of the time.




To understand CBCT, it is important to understand how CT works in the first place.            The principle of Computed Tomography

Unlike 2D radiographic imaging, in Computed Tomography (CT) the detector does not pro-
duce an image. Instead, the detector records transmission of a beam of x-rays through the
                                                                                              The development of CBCT (Cone Beam Computed Tomography) was possible only about
body, at different angles, and complicated computer algorithms reconstruct images from the
                                                                                              20 years later than CT, due to available detector sizes. Cone-shaped beam and detector
data recorded. Among the data extracted from the recordings we gain cross-sectional views,
                                                                                              size allow for much faster scanning, with higher image spatial resolution and lower radiation
3D reconstructions etc.
                                                                                              doses for the patient. The same beam shape and detector size however, have their cons.
                                                                                              Measuring of Hounsfield Units is not applicable on CBCT due to diffuse radiation.
The x-ray source and detector move around the patient, in opposite directions. This means
that the image blurring occurs away from the recorded slice. Diffuse radiation does not
                                                                                              Hounsfield Units (HU) – in short, Godfrey Hounsfield created a scale to most precisely
affect image quality too much due to thin slices recorded in every take.
                                                                                              assess the tissues we look at in the CT imaging. The scale is based on the measured attenu-
                                                                                              ation coefficient changes in tissues, as compared to water. Hounsfield referred to the water
Classical tomography moved only up and down the patient. In one row computed tomogra-
                                                                                              as the 0 value. Any tissue attenuating x-rays less than water is described in negative values
phy (CT), the lamp (x-ray source) and one detector move around the patient, while recording
                                                                                              within the scale, with fat between -60 and -120 HU and air being -1000 HU. Any tissue
one slice of the examination. Then the table with the patient slides in the apparatus, and
                                                                                              denser than water is described in positive values, with compact bone defined as +1000 HU.
another slice is recorded. The examinations took a long time and the technology advance-
                                                                                              Hounsfield Scale enables us to measure bone density on computed tomography imaging.
ments allowed for the development of Multi-Detector Computed Tomography, MDCT and
                                                                                              The scale, however, does not work for CBCT and is not applicable therein. The reason be-
Spiral CT. Nowadays, the CT scanners have 512 or 256 detectors opposing the lamp, which
                                                                                              hind this is the diffused radiation, which is also recorded on the matrix during a CBCT scan.
allows for much quicker examinations. Spiral CT, as compared to CT means, that the ta-
                                                                                              In such conditions, water can no longer be measured as “0”, as diffused radiation blurs the
ble with the patient constantly moves through the apparatus, increasing the speed of the
                                                                                              readouts. The reference system is lost, and different scans are not comparable.
examination furthermore. The lamp is constantly emitting radiation, as compared to turn-
                                                                                              Experienced clinicians can more or less assess which bone-type they will be dealing with,
stop-slide-turn-stop protocol in basic CT machines. The technology most up-to-date in CT
                                                                                              provided that the CBCT apparatus settings are constant for their patients in all compared
scanning is multi row spiral computed tomography, which merges the cons of each of the
                                                                                              cases and, that the DICOM data come from the very same machine. Otherwise, the assump-
developments described.
                                                                                              tions are approximations too vast, to lead to predictable results.
                                                                      13




                                     Detector




X-ray source




Cone-shaped beam




                   The principle of Cone Beam Computed Tomography

                                                          dentalprint3D.pl
14 | Guided Surgery




CBCT
What is CT Scan?
*A CT scan, also known as computed tomography scan, makes use of computer-processed
combinations of many X-ray measurements taken from different angles to produce cross-sec-
tional (tomographic) images (virtual “slices”) of specific areas of a scanned object, allowing
the user to see inside the object without cutting. (*Wikipedia)


What is CBCT?
Computed tomography (CBCT) is a medical imaging technique consisting of X-ray computed
tomography, in which X-rays are divergent, forming a cone. CBCT uses pyramid or cone-
shaped X-rays and an area detector that obtains the full volume of images in one rotary
motion.

Field of View (FOV)
There are many CBCT equipment manufacturers and many models are available. In general,
CBCT is divided into large, medium and small units based on the size of their “imaging field”.
The size of the FOV describes the scan volume of CBCT machines. This volume determines
the extent of the anatomy. This depends on the size and shape of the detector, the geome-
try of the beam projection and the ability to collate the beam. The FOV should only slightly
exceed the anatomical area that is at the center of our interest.

For implantological procedures in computer navigation, an imaging field covering a full den-
tal arch is recommended.
            15




dentalprint3D.pl
16 | Guided Surgery




CBCT                                                                                            DICOM export
                                                                                                •   Data from the examination are stored in DICOM files (Digital Imaging and Communi-
                                                                                                    cations in Medicine) - a standard developed by ACR (American College of Radiology)

Preparation for the CBCT                                                                            and NEMA (National Electrical Manufacturers Association) for the purpose of unifying
                                                                                                    the exchange and interpretation of medical data representing or related to diagnostic
                                                                                                    images in medicine.
To perform CBCT scans, follow the device manufacturer’s instructions.                           •   IMPORTANT: Please burn a folder with uncompressed DICOM files to the disc or
                                                                                                    other media. There is no need to record the viewer for the examination.
To optimize the results, prepare the patient according to the recommendations:                  •   Scan data export as uncompressed DICOM files of individual frames.
• Before the examination, the patient should take off glasses, hair clips and head and
    neck jewelry.

                                                                                                Data transfer
• All metal parts that are not fixed in the mouth must be removed for the duration of the
    examination (dentures with metal parts, earrings on the tongue).
• Before placement of a radiological template to the patient’s mouth, check that all x-ray
    markers are permanently attached to it.
                                                                                                •   The CBCT examination can be sent using courier services. Burn a CD/DVD or pendrive
• IMPORTANT: Insert the lignin rollers between the teeth to ensure stable distance and
                                                                                                    and protect against damage during transport.
    position of the dental arches or use a special positioner / pin during the test. In case
                                                                                                •   The preferred method is to send a folder with DICOM files using the platform:
    of examination with radiological templates in the situation of edentolous or extensive
                                                                                                    www.wetransfer.com
    tooth deficiencies, silicone keys should be made and the patient’s head should be posi-
                                                                                                •   The folder with DICOM files should be compressed in one of the dedicated programs
    tioned with the chin supported.
                                                                                                    before sending (eg WinRAR, WinZIP, Hamster ZIP Archiver). Sending a compressed
• Additionally, lignin rollers can be inserted into the vestibule to move the lips and cheeks
                                                                                                    folder protects against errors that may occur during the transfer of large data sets elec-
    away from the dental arches.
                                                                                                    tronically.
• Make sure that the tongue does not touch the palate during the examination.
• Select the correct Field of View size (FOV).



    Instructions for the patient Compression softwares
•   Please do not move during the examination.                                                  •   WinZIP: www.winzip.com
•   Please do not swallow saliva during the examination.                                        •   WinRAR: www.win-rar.com
                                                                                                •   Hamster ZIP Archiver: www.ziparchiver.hamstersoft.com
                                                                                                                                                                                          17




The field of view for implantological treatments recommended by the American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology is 10: ratio. The limited field of view (FOV) during CBCT ex-
amination should be considered as the preferred type of imaging for the surgical placement of implants.




                           FOV 10x5                                                      FOV 10x5                                                    FOV 10x10



* Tyndall D, Price J, Tetradis S, Ganz S, Hildebolt C, Scarf W. Position statement of the American Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology on selection criteria for the use of radiology
in dental implantology with emphasis on cone beam computed tomography. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol 2012June;113(6):817-26.
                                                                                                                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
18 | Guided Surgery




CBCT

Examination with a
                                                                                                 Markers - size and location
                                                                                                 • The aim of the markers is to create reference points allowing DICOM radiological imag-
                                                                                                    es to be integrated in the implant planning software with other data.


radiological template
                                                                                                 • Markers can be integrated with others DICOM files (Dual Scan Technique) or with digi-
                                                                                                    tal STL images acquired from scanning dentures/radiological templates.
                                                                                                 • The optimal size of the markers is 2-3mm and should be round.
                                                                                                 • The most commonly used materials for markers: gutta-percha, composite material, glass
                                                                                                    balls (preffered).
                                                                                                 • The number and position of the markers depends on the design and size of the radiolog-
                                                                                                    ical template. A minimum of 6-8 markers is required. It is optimal to put more of them.
                                                                                                 • Markers should be positioned in such a way that they are also visible after scanning the
In the case of edentulous or extensive missing teeth, it is recommended to perform CBCT             radiological template in the optical scanner.
examination with a radiological template. The radiological template can be a prosthesis or       • Place them on different planes, however below the level of the teeth. Half of the mark-
a copy of it and should take into account the optimal position of the teeth. If old prosthetic      ers should be on the palatal side and the other should be from the vestibule.
restorations do not meet these requirements, new ones should be made that will be the            • Markers should be convex and protrude from the prosthesis.
pattern for the templates.
                                                                                                 Recommendations for dentist and X-ray staff before CBCT examination:
Types of recommended x-ray templates for edentulous or extensive missing teeth cases:            • Radiological templates must be in a stable and open bite position during examination.
• The existing denture of the patient with embedded markers - can not have metal ele-                Prepare “occlusion keys” made of acrylic or other transparent material for X-rays. The
    ments or reinforcements.                                                                         keys have to stabilize the gums of the jaws and jaws in the stable relation and move
• Template made of transparent acrylic with embedded markers made by duplicating an                  the lower arch from the upper by about 2-3mm.
    existing denture.                                                                            • The radiological template must adhere very precisely to the soft tissue so that there is
• 3D printed radiological template made on the basis of an existing denture scan or digital          no “air cushion”.
    prosthesis template (STL file) with embedded markers.                                        • Position the patient’s head in the CBCT using the chin support.
                                                                                      19




Positioning of the Patient’s head in a Kodak Carestream CS 9300S with a
chin support.



                                                                          dentalprint3D.pl
20 | Guided Surgery




Dual Scan
            21




dentalprint3D.pl
22 | Guided Surgery




Dual Scan
DUAL SCAN technique
                                                                                                    STEP 3: After drying the denture, place the markers on the plate. They should be placed on
                                                                                                    various planes on the buccal and palatal or lingual sides. At least 6 markers must be placed.



with the patient’s
                                                                                                    STEP 4: Make a bite of silicone material at least 3mm thick so that the teeth of the jaws
                                                                                                    do not touch each other during the examination. The obtained bite will serve as a bite key.
                                                                                                    Optional is to use the thick cotton rolls to hold an open bite during examination.


prosthesis                                                                                          STEP 5: SCANS - 2 CBCT scans will be performed before removing the relyining material
                                                                                                    from the base of the prosthesis and removing the scan marks.
                                                                                                    Scan 1: CBCT of a patient with a prosthesis and occlusion bite (key) in the mouth in the oc-
                                                                                                    clusion, so that the prosthesis is properly placed on the ground. Open bite.
                                                                                                    Scan 2: CBCT of the denture without patient - with markers and relining material still in
                                                                                                    place. If the Patient has 2 dentures than upper and lower denture should be scanned in the
The CBCT scan technique allows you to get all the required data to create a surgical template
                                                                                                    separate procedures (Scan 2 for upper and Scan 3 for the lower denture)
for a computer navigation procedure often without the need for a radiological template and
model casting.
                                                                                                    STEP 6: Images from the first and second scan should be saved in DICOM format and placed
This technique should not be performed if the patient’s prosthesis has metal reinforcement
                                                                                                    in separate folders.
or if the position of the teeth and the shape of the arch are changed, because we do not want
to plan the implants in the old occlusion pattern.
                                                                                                    Typical errors
                                                                                                    1. During the scan, the dentures were moving and poorly embedded in the oral cavity, which
STEP 1: Make sure that the denture is very well fitted, which will translate into a matching
                                                                                                    may result in incorrect adjustment of the surgical template.
surgical template.
                                                                                                    2. The radiological markers were removed before both scans were taken. It is not possible to
                                                                                                    merge images and integrate the data
STEP 2: If the prosthesis does not fit perfectly, it should be relined with a light body silicone
                                                                                                    3. The denture during the scan in the mouth was without markers. Markers were added but
material (PVS) without using glue.
                                                                                                    only in the case of a scan of the prosthesis outside the oral cavity. It is not possible to submit
                                                                                                    images.
            23




dentalprint3D.pl
24 | Guided Surgery




Dual Scan
Examination with a radiological template.


The Dual Scan procedure can be performed both in the classical computed tomography (CT)
and cone beam computed tomography (CBCT). This examination can be carried out
when the patient has a prosthesis or a prepared radiological template with optimal x-ray
translucency. First, make new dentures for the patient to obtain optimal information about
the spatial position of the teeth during implant planning if it is planned to change the posi-
tion of the teeth.




In the edentulous cases or extensive deficiencies requiring a change in the position of the teeth, an optimal position in   Based on the measurements, you can make a transparent acrylic denture that will serve as a radiological template.
the next prosthetic restoration should be determined, starting with the wax reams.                                          Optimal translucency for X-rays characterizes transparent acrylic.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25




The image of the partial upper denture made of transparent acrylic. The X-ray prosthesis cannot have metal braces and       It is optimal to use sandblasted balls as x-ray markers (they will also be visible in the optical scanning process). The balls
reinforcements. In such a prosthesis should be embedded radiographic markers.                                               should be embedded in the prosthesis. The picture shows a glass ball with a diameter of 2.5mm.




After making the recesses with a drill, the balls should protrude above the surface of the acrylic. A flow type composite   The X-ray template should have markers on the vestibular and lingual/palatal side. The position of the markers is below
(with low filler content) can be used for fixing.                                                                           the zenith of the teeth as close as possible to the alveolar ridge.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dentalprint3D.pl
   26 | Guided Surgery




Upper partial denture with visible embedded markers on the denture base. The placement of markers should be       View of the markers in the upper prosthesis from the vestibular and palatal side. Embaded balls should protrude from
irregular.                                                                                                        the contour of the prosthesis.




View of the prepared X-ray template for edentulous mandible. Embedded markers are visible on the vestibular and   An X-ray image of the radiological template obtained with CBCT. Different radio translucency of X-ray markers and
lingual side. Irregular positioning helps in a precise merging of the data.                                       denture base helps to create separate layers during the segmentation process in the coDiagnostiX® software.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              27




Before starting the examination, relining of the radiological template in the patient’s mouth with the low body silicone   Relining can be done with silicone or polyether materials as in this case. Pay attention to thoroughly position the tem-
impression material is necessary. It helps to transfer precise information about the mucosa in the dual scan technique.    plates in the mouth in the correct bite. Denture has to adhere to the mucosa of the ridge.




During the examination, the dental arches must be distant from each other (open bite). Use the bite registration mate-     As a result of the CBCT examination with radiological templates, we obtain an image of the jaws together with x-ray
rial or cotton rolls to stabilize the templates in the open bite position and press against the soft tissue.               markers, which will serve to position the image of the prosthesis against the bone in the planning software.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
28 | Guided Surgery




3D image obtained in Kodak Caresteam CS 9300S cone beam computed tomography (CBCT).
X-ray markers embedded in the radiological template are clearly visible in the picture.
                                                                                                                                                                                      29




First Scan - CBCT of a patient wearing a prosthesis with markers

•   The first scan is CBCT examination of a patient wearing an x-ray template (without met-    •   The positioning of the patient is comparable to a standard CBCT examination. Make
    al reinforcements) with embedded x-ray markers in open bite. The bite record or cotton         sure that the cross-sectional plane is parallel to the occlusal plane!
    rolls are used to stabilize the prosthesis during the examination and to move the teeth    •   The upper and/or lower arches with the prosthesis should be completely covered in the
    apart from each other by a minimum of 3mm. Obtaining an image of occlusal surfaces             imaging field (MFOV).
    free from contact with opposing teeth facilitates the integration of DICOM and STL files   •   To create a precise template for guided surgery, a full scan is required.
    in the planning process.




                                                                                               3D image after segmentation and coloring of the mandible bone and radiological markers for
                                                                                               easy differentiation of images.
                                                                                                                                                                         dentalprint3D.pl
30 | Guided Surgery
30 | Guided Surgery




                      Second Scan - CBCT scan of prostheses with X-ray markers.
                      •   When performing the second scan, it is essential to position the prosthesis in the same
                          way it was placed in the patient’s mouth during the first scan. It means that the left/
                          right and top/bottom orientation should be correct = the same as in the patient’s mouth
                          scan.
                      •   The material used to support the prosthesis must be more radiolucent than the pros-
                          thesis itself. Polyethylene and polyurethane foam materials are an excellent example
                          of materials that can be used when scanning CBCT. Some CBCT manufacturers offer
                          ready-made supports for this procedure.
                                                                                                        31




Example of the settings for the second scan of the acrylic x-ray template in the Kodak Carestream CS 9300S.

                                                                                           dentalprint3D.pl
32 | Guided Surgery
32 | Guided Surgery




3D image of a radiological template with radiographic markers obtained in the Kodak Carestream CS 9300S.




                                                Advice: set the lowest dose for the CBCT scan of the x-ray template in the dual scan technique.
                                                                                                     33




3D image of a radiological template with radiographic markers obtained in the Kodak Carestream CS 9300S.

                                                                                         dentalprint3D.pl
34 | Guided Surgery




Digital impression
            35




dentalprint3D.pl
36 | Guided Surgery




                                Digital
                      impression and
                        digital model
                        For digital planning, it is necessary to create a digital model saved in STL format. We have
                        three main techniques for creating such a model:
                        • Digital impression with intraoral scanner (IOS)
                        • Direct scanning of alginate or silicone impression with intraoral or laboratory scanner
                        • Scanning of the plaster model with intraoral (IOS) or laboratory scanner

                        The effect of the scanning process is to obtain a 3D image, which is saved in STL format.

                        STL (Stereolitography) – file commonly used as a standard in Rapid Prototyping methods.
                        Most CAD software provides the option to write in the STL output format. The STL format
                        is a triangulation (triangular) representation of the surface geometry in three-dimensional
                        space. Each surface is divided into a series of small triangles, and then each vertex of the
                        triangle is described by 3 points representing their position relative to the coordinate axes.
                                                                                                   37




Scanning impressions makes it possible to obtain a 3D model bypassing pouring the plaster model.



                                                                                       dentalprint3D.pl
38 | Guided Surgery




Intraoral scanner
Review of current literature.




Mangano F, Gandolfi A, Luongo G, Logozzo S. Intraoral scanners in dentistry: a review of the
current literature. BMC Oral Health. 2017;17:149.


Intra Oral Scanners (IOS) are devices for recording direct optical impressions in dentistry.

Conclusions:
Optical impressions reduce patient discomfort; IOS are time-efficient and simplify clinical
procedures for the dentist, eliminating plaster models and allowing better communication
with the dental technician and with patients; however, with IOS, it can be difficult to detect
deep margin lines in prepared teeth and/or in case of bleeding, there is a learning curve,
and there are purchasing and managing costs. The current IOS are sufficiently accurate for
capturing impressions for fabricating a whole series of prosthetic restorations (inlays/onlays,
copings and frameworks, single crowns and fixed partial dentures) on both natural teeth and
implants; in addition, they can be used for smile design, and to fabricate posts and cores,
removable partial prostheses and obturators. The literature to date does not support the use
of IOS in long-span restorations with natural teeth or implants. Finally, IOS can be integrat-
ed in implant dentistry for guided surgery and in orthodontics for fabricating aligners and
custom-made devices.WW
            39




dentalprint3D.pl
40 | Guided Surgery




Scanning
of the analog model
Taking a classic impression using alginate or silicone material (PVS) is aimed at obtaining
a mapping of the clinical situation on the plaster model. Such a model can be scanned to
create an STL file.

In some situations, taking a classic impression, casting a plaster model and surface scanning
on a laboratory scanner is the preferred technique for intraoral scanning.

Indications:
• edentulous cases
• free end situations (especially in the lower jaw)
• planned support for a surgical template on a full dental arch
                                                                                                               41




Laboratory scanner, so-called desktop is mainly used in dental laboratories and clinics with
laboratory facilities. This universal type of scanner features outstanding scanning versatility,
speed and accuracy as well as a wide range of applications in prosthetic design.

Virtual models can be generated by scanning impressions and plaster models. In the future,
impression scanning is expected to become the standard for capturing 3D images.



                                                                                                   dentalprint3D.pl
42 | Guided Surgery




Implant planning
            43




dentalprint3D.pl
44 | Guided Surgery




Implant
planning
Proper planning of the implant position is
the basis for designing of the surgical
template.
There are many planning softwares available that have many things in common. There are            •   coDiagnostiX ™ also allows you to design templates based on teeth, soft tissue, bone,
also significant differences between them that give the user additional functions and pos-            mixed and special, such as bone reduction guides, templates for endodontic treatment,
sibilities. In our center, we mainly use the coDiagnostiX ™ software (Dental Wings). This             templates for Sinus Lift.
program gives us many possibilities, including:                                                   •   Selection of the sleeves for osteotomy and full implant guidance.
• Planning the type, model and size of the implant (length and diameter) from the existing        •   Possibility to select drilling sleeves from independent producers.
      implant library or we can create an individual implant model knowing its dimensions         •   Possibility to generate reports containing a surgical protocol, materials for the proce-
• Determining the location of implants with each other (parallelism and tolerance of dis-             dure, individual positions of implants.
      crepancies).                                                                                •   Different language versions are available
• Determining the position of the implant index - the orientation of the connection for
      the abutment, which allows you to plan the position of the implant relative to the angled   The complexity of the case, the type of planned template and the implant system will in-
      abutment.                                                                                   fluence the selection of the appropriate planning program. If the Clinician has his license
• Selection of prosthetic abutments - height and angulation along with measurements               of the coDiagnostiX ™ program, it is possible to set a remote connection with the Planning
      of discrepancies between them, which facilitates the planning of full-arch restorations.    and Print Center to speed up the workflow. The leading programs are regularly updated and
• Adding a virtual tooth (digital wax-up) from either the program library or by adding an         have built-in implant libraries. The number of implant systems is continuously increasing,
      STL file.                                                                                   and libraries update provides greater versatility during the treatment plan. The dentist has
• Synchronization through so-called “Synergy” with a laboratory program for the design            a choice of all available models and sizes of implants (given manufacturer), which gives full
      of prosthetic work, allows for preparing the temporary restoration, an individual abut-     possibilities to select the right tools in the planned case.
      ment or an individual healing screw before surgery.
                                                                                          45




Planning for implant treatment in the coDiagnostiX ™ program involves few steps:
• import of DICOM files
• STL image import
• submission of DICOM and STL images
• import of the Swax-up or digital prosthetic plan
• planning the position of the implant relative to the optimal prosthetic position
• planning a template for computer navigation and its export


                                                                              dentalprint3D.pl
46 | Guided Surgery




Implant
planning guidelines



Basic rules
Prosthetic-driven planning is recommended, and close communication between the patient,
dentist, surgeon and dental technician is imperative for achieving the desired esthetic result.

To determine the topographical situation, axial orientation and the appropriate implants,
making a wax-up / set up using the previously prepared study cast is recommended. Subse-
quently, the type of superstructure can be defined. The wax-up / set-up can later be used as
the basis for a custom-made x-ray or drill template and for a temporary restoration.

Note: Abutments should always be loaded axially. Ideally, the long axis of the implant is
aligned with the cusps of the opposing tooth. Extreme cusp formation should be avoided as
this can lead to unphysiological loading.

The mesiodistal bone availability is an important factor when choosing the implant type and
diameter as well as the inter-implant distances if multiple implants are placed. The point of
reference on the implant for measuring mesiodistal distances is always the largest diameter
of the implant.
                                                                                                                                                                      47




Rule 1:                                              Rule 2:                                                  Rule 3:
Distance to adjacent tooth at bone level             Distance to adjacent implants at bone level              The facial and palatal bone thickness at least 1.5mm




A minimum distance of 1.5mm from the implant adja-   A minimum distance of 3mm between two adjacent implant   The facial and palatal bone layer must be at least 1.5mm
cent tooth (mesial and distal) is recommended.       shoulders (mesiodistal) is recommended.                  thick in order to ensure stable hard and soft tissue con-
                                                                                                              ditions. Within this limitation, a restoration-driven orofa-
                                                                                                              cial implant position and axis should be chosen such that
                                                                                                              screw-retained restorations are possible.
                                                                                                              Caution: An augmentation procedure is indicated if the
                                                                                                              orofacial bone wall is less than 1.5mm or a layer of bone
                                                                                                              is missing on one or more sides.


                                                                                                                                                         dentalprint3D.pl
48 | Guided Surgery




DICOM import
Implant planning programs require that files delivered from a CT or CBCT examination
shoul be stored in an uncompressed DICOM format.



Segmentation
After importing DICOM images into dedicated software, the process of segmentation of the          When applied to a stack of images, typical of medical imaging, the resulting contours af-
image should be carried out.                                                                      ter image segmentation can be used to create 3D reconstructions using interpolation algo-
                                                                                                  rithms.
*In the computer images, image segmentation is the process of dividing a digital image into       The image obtained as a result of segmentation is simplified in relation to the image sub-
multiple segments (sets of pixels, also known as superpixels). The purpose of segmentation        jected to segmentation - this image does not contain many detailed information appearing
is to simplify and/or change the representation of the image into something that is more          in the original image.
meaningful and easier to analyze. Image segmentation is usually used to locate objects and
boundaries (lines, curves, etc.) in images. More specifically, image segmentation is the pro-     Advanced implant planning programs have built-in algorithms and various segmentation
cess of assigning a label to each pixel in an image so that pixels with the same label have       methods that aim to precisely identify structures that are of interest to the clinician. From
certain characteristics.                                                                          the set of data being the basis for the creation of the default 3D reconstruction, it is possible
The result of image segmentation is a set of segments that together comprise the entire           to distinguish many structures that, after additional coloring, allow for easier differentiation
image or set of outlines extracted from the image. Each pixel in the region is similar in rela-   of areas, but also enable and disable their visibility in the planning process.
tion to some characteristic or calculated properties, such as color, intensity or texture. The
neighboring regions differ significantly in terms of the same features.                           * https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image_segmentation
                                                      49




Segmentation images obtained in the coDiagnostiX™
• Brown color - facial skin
• Blue color - upper jaw with the teeth
• Green color - lower jaw
• White color - lower dentition

                                          dentalprint3D.pl
50 | Guided Surgery




Merging data
DICOM and STL files

Data integration consists in combining data
from different sources and providing users
with a uniform view.

STL files contain necessary information about the position of soft tissues, teeth and pros-
thetic restorations.

In the implant planning software, the process of combining CT/CBCT data, that is DICOM
files and images from an intra oral scanner or a laboratory scanner (STL files), is performed
by indicating common points. The seemingly simple process incorporates advanced tech-
nologies that, by comparing hundreds of convergent points, create consistent images. The
accuracy of matching individual images is the foundation of the precision of the surgical
procedure.

Computer navigation templates are planned based on two images: DICOM and STL. How-
ever, the superior image to create the template is the image of the soft tissues and the teeth
contained in the STL file. If data integration (DICOM + STL) is inconsistent and inaccurate,
this will lead to incorrect determination of the drilling axis for the implants.
                                                51




Jaw segmentation based on the DICOM files.




STL file - image of the teeth and soft tissue
obtained from the intraoral scanner.




Integrated DICOM and STL files.




                                dentalprint3D.pl
52 | Guided Surgery




Implant systems
Libraries
The implant planning software CoDiagnostiX ™ is an open program and has an integrated         Some manufacturers’ libraries also contain information about prosthetic abutments. These
database with implants from various manufacturers including the Straumann® implant port-      are very valuable data because at the stage of determining the position of the implant one
folio. The database is constantly updated. The user can check at any time via online update   can also plan the type of the abutment, its angularity and the height of the soft tissue. The
whether new data is available.                                                                position of the abutment will have a big influence on the orientation of the index / connec-
                                                                                              tion in the implant. The advantage of the coDiagnostiX ™ program is the ability to add mark-
Depending on the tools offered by the manufacturer of the implant system, the program         ings on a computer navigation template that are a reference for the implant index position.
allows you to design a template compatible with the tools dedicated to computer navigation.
This means that the program automatically suggests which sleeves should be used as drill
guides or allows you to generate a surgical report that guides you through the process step
by step during the procedure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    53




The implant libraries in the coDiagnostiX ™ software allow you to plan most popular implant systems, from premium   In the implant position planning mode, we can choose the model, diameter, length and pre-position selected on the
brands such as Straumann to less well-known products.                                                               tooth diagram. In addition, we can plan and set positions for pins that stabilize the template in the bone.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dentalprint3D.pl
54 | Guided Surgery




Integration and planning
Single tooth restoration
The integration of DICOM and STL files in the absence of a single tooth is an easy process due                          The stage of data integration and implant position planning in the coDiagnostiX ™ program
to the presence of dentition, which is the reference for integration. The only obstacle that can                        is determined by step-by-step procedures. This makes it easier to carry out this process effi-
occur during image merging process is the presence of artefacts resulting from the diffusion                            ciently even for novice users without experience in handling such programs.
of X-rays by metal-based restorations and sintered metal oxides.




3D reconstruction obtained from CBCT is the first action after importing DICOM files. The segmentation process allows   The STL image, obtained in a dental laboratory from a plaster model scan, should be saved in the patient’s folder for
distinguishing the mandible with the teeth as a separate colored layer.                                                 easy access and path selection.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           55




To merge data, the STL file import module is started. The left window displays 3D segmentation, and the right image    The correctness and consistency of the marked points are communicated by the appearance of the green bar below and
shows the STL model. Between the objects, the points common for image integration are marked.                          in the dialog box. The program still asks to check for proper alignment in the next step.




The control window allows you to check the alignment of the images. There are four windows in which we can trace and   When assessing the correctness of image alignment, it should be noted if the outline of the model is consistent with the
correct images in different cross-sections and a 3D image.                                                             outline of the shape of the teeth. A view in the coronal plane.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          dentalprint3D.pl
56 | Guided Surgery




Image control in the sagital plane.                                    Checking the correctness of image alignment in the axial plane.




3D view representing DICOM images in blue and STL stained in yellow.   The interface of the coDiagnostiX ™ software allows viewing multiple windows or the selection of each view inde-
                                                                       pendently.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    57




The next step is to plan the position of the implant. From the library of over 70 implant systems, you can choose the type   The implant will be automatically added to the selected place by the doctor. In this case, in the position of the missing
of implant that best suits the anatomical conditions.                                                                        second premolar in the left side of the mandible.




The image shows the planned implant in cross-section with the prominent position of the mental nerve (marked in pink)        By rotating the image around the implant axis, it is possible to check the position of the implant relative to the adjacent
and the contour of the soft tissue.                                                                                          anatomical structures and the roots of adjacent teeth.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dentalprint3D.pl
58 | Guided Surgery




Implant axis can be optimized. The software allows the addition of the so-called “Digital wax-up.” It is enough to choose          The shape and position of the tooth are editable. You can rotate it, change its size and location.
the number of the missing tooth to add a virtual crown automatically.




Editing and controlling the position of the tooth. In the upper right corner above the tooth, there are three small icons re-      The ability to check images in various planes makes it easier to find the optimal position due to the prosthetic axis.
sponsible for the function. The first is shifting, the second is the size change, and the third is responsible for the rotation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    59




After planning the final position of the implant, you choose the type of computer navigation system or the availability of   For Straumann implants, a list of available sleeves is automatically developed. The default sleeve for full navigation is a
the third party sleeves available. The available options for a given system are visible in the drop-down menu.               5mm diameter sleeve. The product catalog number is also given.




For Straumann navigation, the program allows selection of three positions of the sleeve relative to the implant platform.    We also have the option of choosing the shape of the hole in the template for mounting the sleeve. It may be cylindrical
Position H2, H4 or H6 determines the distance between the base of the sleeve and the platform of the implant in mm.          or adapted to the form of the sleeve.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dentalprint3D.pl
60 | Guided Surgery




The position of the sleeve should take into account the thickness and arrangement of the soft tissues. Placed too low, it      Make sure there is enough space between the teeth for the sleeve. If there is no space, change the diameter of the
may prevent passive embedding of the template in its place due to the soft tissue.                                             sleeve. There are three sizes: 5mm, 2.8mm, and 2.2mm




The design of the guide starts by specifying the drill guide’s insertion direction. The viewing direction defines the inser-   The position of the planned implant with the sleeve is automatically blocked and illuminated in blue. Select from the
tion direction. All the undercuts will be blocked.                                                                             diagram the tooth positions which will give the support for the template.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           61




The size or span of the template depends on the position of the planned implant and the condition of the teeth.       In the program, the user can specify the offset settings (clearance between the template and the teeth) and the thickness
                                                                                                                      of the connectors. The offset settings depend on the printer type, type of support and template fixation.




The software allows adding custom inspection windows to verify a close fit of the template on the teeth. Adding the   The template labeling is with individual information like patient data, tooth number, a number identifying whether the
windows needs caution to avoid weakening of the template construction.                                                name of the clinic or doctor’s details.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          dentalprint3D.pl
62 | Guided Surgery




In a short time, the program generates a template, the design of which can be viewed and inspected. In the producer       Before exporting, the program allows you to once again check the settings related to the production of a template such
version, the software makes it possible to export the template in the form of an open STL file.                           as offset or wall thickness.




The program will automatically collect the fee for the export of the STL file from the user’s account, at the same time   The STL file can be sent to the production of a template for guided surgery, while in the program we get an additional
informing about the amount of remaining credits.                                                                          layer with the drill guide.
                                                         63




Cross-sectional image through the implant position:
• sleeve - green color
• soft tissues - orange color
• drill guide - white color




                                             dentalprint3D.pl
64 | Guided Surgery




Merging data
For edentulous cases with Dual Scan Technique
The integration of DICOM and STL files in edentulous cases requires the presence of addi-                             2. The second set of data are DICOM images obtained from the second CBCT examination of
tional reference points, which are, for example, radiological markers. The most straightforward                       the prosthesis itself. In order to create a surgical template, the coDiagnostiX ™ software will
technique for obtaining data for integration is the Dual Scan technique. As a result of this                          use the negative image of the denture base, which is a copy of the soft tissues in the mouth.
approach, we get two DICOM datasets.
1. The first set of data are DICOM images of a patient with a radiological template in the                            This technique requires that the denture does not have any metal elements and radiographic
mouth during the examination.                                                                                         markers should have a higher radio-opacity than the prosthesis acrylic material.




3D reconstruction obtained on the basis of the CBCT examination with a radiological template in the dual scan tech-   3D reconstruction of a radiological template being a copy of the lower prosthesis based on the second CBCT examina-
nique.                                                                                                                tion.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             65




3D image after segmentation, which contains two color layers. The lower jaw is marked in blue, and the radiological   3D reconstruction of the lower denture after segmentation and dying in pink. The radiographic markers protruding
markers are stained in green.                                                                                         beyond the outline of the prosthesis are visible.




Image after integration of DICOM files. Two independent images were put together on the basis of common reference     In the program, it is possible to enable and disable individual layers and color changes according to the user’s prefer-
points and a precise algorithm in the coDiagnostiX ™ program.                                                         ences.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            dentalprint3D.pl
66 | Guided Surgery




Implant planning starts with assigning their positions according to the diagram of the teeth — an example of planning       Implant planning and selection of positions for anchoring pins in the bone.
the location of Neodent implants.




Verification and optimization of implant positions in relation to the position of the teeth in the radiological template.   Information about the bone and the shape of the prosthesis will be visible on the cross-sectional images, allowing precise
                                                                                                                            planning of the implant’s position relative to the prosthetic axis and the thickness of the soft tissues.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     67




The cross-sectional view (32). The implant’s setting axis allows access to the occlusion screw for prosthetic work in the   The cross-section in the position 44 - the optimum position is also achieved within the premolars.
optimal place from the lingual side.




Design of the template for osteotomy with pilot burs. The guide is with distal support on the bone in the molars region     The designed template is visible with the implants and pins in their position. For the clinical procedure, it is necessary to
and stabilization with three bone pins in the front of the mandible.                                                        embed in the guide the dedicated sleeves for dills guidance. Here are visible in yellow.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    dentalprint3D.pl
68 | Guided Surgery




Guided Surgery
                                                                         69




Drill holders for Straumann Guided computer navigation system.

                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
70 | Guided Surgery




Straumann® Guided Surgery concept




Straumann® Guided Surgery concept is based on the sleeve-in-sleeve concept.
• The cylinder of the drill handle is inserted into sleeve fixed to the surgical template.
• For each instrument diameter, an ergonomic drill handle is available.
• Every drill handle features one cylinder with an additional height of +1 mm at one end and a
    second cylinder with an extra cylinder height of +3 mm at the other end.
• For identification during surgery, Straumann® drill handles for guided surgery are color-coded
    and symbol-marked
• The surgical protocol lists which cylinder of the drill handle (+1 mm, +3 mm) should be used for
    each implant.
                                                                                               71




Drill handle with +1mm height


                                Drill inserted in the drill handle full depth to the stopper




                                                                               dentalprint3D.pl
72 | Guided Surgery




Straumann® Guided Surgery: preparation of the osteotomy is performed using dedicated
drills and handles. The length of the drill and the drilling depth, as well as the correct drill
handle, are automatically calculated by the coDiagnostiX™ software based on the planned
implant position.
                                                                                                                                            73




                                                   Straumann® BLT Implant Guided Roxolid SLActive® has a special carrier for the implant, de-
                                                   signed with comfort and precision in mind for the Clinician.




FULL NAVIGATION


Implantation in full computer navigation
makes it possible to perform a controlled oste-
otomy regarding depth, diameter, and the axis
of the preparation and allows the implant to
be inserted through the template, which guar-
antees the highest precision of insertion of the
implant.
The most accurate programs allow you to plan
a surgical template that takes into account the
position of the index in the implant.

Kris Chmielewski, DDS, MSc                         Index position for the implant is marked on the guide and makes it easier to set the dots on
                                                   the implant carrier relative to the template.

                                                                                                                               dentalprint3D.pl
74 | Guided Surgery




Neodent® Guided Surgery

 Neodent® Guided Surgery Kit for Grand Morse™




Neodent® Guided Surgery (NGS) Instruments
They are designed to prepare the osteotomy and per-
form the implant placement of Neodent® GM implants in
combination with surgical guide including the Neodent®
Sleeves.
                                                                                                                                                                 75




                                                             Drill handle with color coding




                 Sleeve Regular (blue)




                                                                                               The GM Neodent® Guided Surgery Sleeve is selected according to the
                                                                                               mesio-distal space and implant diameter. During the digital planning,
                                                                                               sleeve positions have to be evaluated in order to avoid collision. GM
                                                                                               NGS offers a comprehensive range of sleeve diameters for optimizing
                                                                                               sleeve placement.
                                                                                               The GM NGS System allows flexible height sleeve position in the sur-
                                                                                               gical guide. The two sleeve positions are 5 mm (H9) or 7 mm (H11),
                                                                                               considering 9 and 11 mm from the upper part of the sleeve to the
                                                                                               implant platform. For implant length of 18 mm a partial NGS technique
Sleeve Narrow (purple)               Sleeve Regular (blue)               Sleeve Wide (green)
                                                                                               is indicated.
    internal Ø 3.5                       internal Ø 4.5                    internal Ø 6.2

                                                                                                                                                    dentalprint3D.pl
76 | Guided Surgery




Guides
            77




dentalprint3D.pl
78 | Guided Surgery




                                                                                                     Sleeve for stabilizing pin




                                                                                   Stabilizing pin




Guide                                                                                                  Implant index position marker




Design
Many factors influence the design of a drill guide, including:
• The number of planned implants and their position
• Dental arch (maxilla or mandible)
• Type of support for the template (teeth, mucosa, bone, mixed)
• Type of retention (screws, pins)
• Indications (immediate, late implantation, bone reduction)
• The capabilities of planning software
• Technology of production (milling, printing)

Knowledge of the software and its functionality is the basis for optimal template design.
                                                                                                                                      79




T-sleeve - sleeve / guide for drill handle




                                             An example of a template designed for fully guided surgery in the edentulous case with three
                                             anchoring pins in the lower jaw.
                                                                                                                         dentalprint3D.pl
80 | Guided Surgery




Types of guides
For guided surgery



Definitions
                                                                                                  Guides for the fully guided surgery.
                                                                                                  The incomplete navigation consists in performing a full osteotomy through the template, but
                                                                                                  the implant is placed without the guide. Full navigation enables the preparation of the bone
                                                                                                  bed and insertion of the implant through the guide. At the site of the planned implant, the
                                                                                                  template has a hole with a diameter of 5 to 7mm, depending on the system through which
Guides can be divided into two main groups due to their function:                                 the bone preparation takes place. The drills or drill holders with a diameter fitted to the hole
• Guides for incomplete and complete osteotomy                                                    in the template will be used to prepare the osteotomy. Such systems also enable additional
• Guides for incomplete and full navigation                                                       preparation with profile cutters on the ridge or tapping of the bone in the dense bone cases.
                                                                                                  The implant is inserted with the dedicated carriers after the osteotomy is completed.
Guides for the osteotomy.                                                                         The advantage of such system is the exact preparation of the bone bed regarding axis, depth
They are used only for a navigated bone preparation with dedicated drills. Templates can          and spatial position, and the insertion of the implant, taking into account the location of the
be prepared for pilot drills only or any diameter of the used drill. It is recommended that the   implant index (connection position for the abutment).
guide for the drill in the template is made of metal. For this purpose, dedicated metal sleeves
are used, which are fixed in the template. The lack of a sleeve poses a risk of introducing       The template for full computer navigation is usually equipped with metal sleeves embedded
scraps of material from which the template is made to the wound during the preparation.           in the guide. There are also sleeveless systems. In such a case the drills are equipped with the
                                                                                                  shank diameter fitted to the template hole diameter.
The disadvantage is the need to create a separate template for each drill diameter or use the     The template, depending on the implant system to be used, may be equipped with markers
unique sleeve-in-sleeve system. These types of guides will not allow the implant placement        allowing for accurate orientation of the implant index position relative to the prosthetic
through the guide.                                                                                abutment.
                                                                                          81




Template for pilot drills
The diameter of the sleeve depends on the diameter of the pilot drill. The most commonly
used diameters are 2.0 - 2.2mm. When ordering a template for pilot drills, please specify
the diameter of the drill and the system.
There are pilot drill sleeves with the following diameters: 1.5mm, 1.6mm, 2.0mm, 2.2mm,
2.35mm, 2.5mm, 2.8mm.




Template for full navigation
Full computer navigation requires the use of dedicated surgical tool sets offered by the man-
ufacturer of the implant system.
Template for Straumann Guided system with metal sleeves, type T-Sleeve with a diameter of
5mm, designed in the program coDiagnostiX™ (Dental Wings)
                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
82 | Guided Surgery




Guides
Support                                                                                            Stabilization
Depending on how the template is supported, we can classify it as:                                 Stability of the template in its place can be improved with different solutions. Additional
• Teeth supported guide                                                                            retention is recommended in the case of the edentulous patients and with extensive defi-
• Mucosa supported guide                                                                           ciencies and weak residual teeth.
• Bone-supported guides directly and indirectly
• Guides with mixed support                                                                        Several methods and instruments can be used to stabilize the templates:
                                                                                                   • Stabilization with screws fixing the template to the bone
The method of supporting the template may affect the accuracy of the procedure. The lack           • Stabilization with pins set in the drilled holes in the alveolar ridge
of precise embedding of the template in the oral cavity or the lack of stability of the template   • Stabilization with pins placed in the axis of the implant bed preparation
during drilling has a direct impact on the precision of the performed surgical procedure. It is    • Temporary implants
widely believed to be the most precise, templates based directly on the bone or templates
based on teeth.
                                                                                         83
Teeth supported guide.   Mucosa supported guide.




Pin supported guide.     Guide with mixed support - teeth and bone support




                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
84 | Guided Surgery




Precision, fixing and
support
What does literature say?
Zhou W, Liu Z, Song L, Kuo CL, Shafer DM. Clinical Factors Affecting the Accuracy of Guid-     RESULTS:
ed Implant Surgery-A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. J Evid Based Dent Pract. 2018        Fourteen clinical studies from 1951 articles initially identified met the inclusion criteria. Me-
Mar;18(1):28-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jebdp.2017.07.007. Epub 2017 Jul 22.                           ta-regression analysis revealed a mean deviation at the entry point of 1.25 mm (95% confi-
                                                                                               dence interval [CI]: 1.22-1.29), 1.57 mm (95% CI: 1.53-1.62) at the apex, and 4.1° in angle
                                                                                               (95% CI: 3.97-4.23). A statistically significant difference (P < .001) was observed in angular
Abstract                                                                                       deviations between the maxilla and mandible. Partially guided surgery showed a statistically
                                                                                               significant greater deviation in angle (P < .001), at the entry point (P < .001), and at the apex
OBJECTIVES:                                                                                    (P < .001) compared with totally guided surgery. The outcome of guided surgery with flap-
To systematically review the current dental literature regarding clinical accuracy of guided   less approach indicated significantly more accuracy in angle (P < .001), at the entry point (P
implant surgery and to analyze the involved clinical factors.                                  < .001), and at apex (P < .001). Significant differences were observed in angular deviation
                                                                                               based on the use of fixation screw (P < .001).
MATERIAL AND METHODS:
PubMed and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were searched. Meta-analysis         CONCLUSIONS:
and meta-regression analysis were performed. Clinical studies with the following outcome       The position of guide, guide fixation, type of guide, and flap approach could influence the
measurements were included: (1) angle deviation, (2) deviation at the entry point, and (3)     accuracy of computer-aided implant surgery. A totally guided system using fixation screws
deviation at the apex. The involved clinical factors were further evaluated.                   with a flapless protocol demonstrated the greatest accuracy. Future clinical research should
                                                                                               use a standardized measurement technique for improved accuracy.
                                                                                                             85




Fixing the template with screws

For this type of template fixation, the dedicated screws with diameters 1.3, 1.5mm or
1.8mm are used. It is usually necessary to make pilot holes in the bone. The drilling axis and
depth should be planned and determined by the sleeves that are guides for the drill.

Some systems for the template fixation offer self-tapping screws.

IMPORTANT: the placement of the screws should take into account the position of the
teeth and implants and the inclination of the screws relative to the long axis of the teeth
to avoid collisions during drilling and allow easy access for the operator taking into account
the depth of the oral vestibule.



Fixing the template with the pins

As with the use of screws, it is necessary to drill pilot holes. The drilling axis and depth
should be planned in the implant planning software and depends on the length and diame-
ter of the pins.
The recommended pins for stabilization of templates with dedicated sleeves are offered by
Straumann, Neodent and Nobel Biocare.

Fixing with the pins makes it easier to remove and reinstall the guide during the procedure
without the risk of resizing of the holes in the bone with a threaded screw. However, it is
essential to correctly plan the position for the pin within the existing cortical bone.



Stabilization of the template with additional titanium pins

This type of template stabilization is performed using dedicated titanium thick pins. They
are inserted in the axis of the osteotomy for the future implant, and in the situation when
more implants will be placed. The diameter of such an instrument matches the diameter of
the sleeve in the template and the diameter of the hole made in the bone. Usually, they are
color-coded.

Tip: It is best to fix the template first with pins or screws and to prepare the osteotomy in
the most distal positions. Than place the thick fixation pin in the holes for rigid stabiliza-
tion.


                                                                                                 dentalprint3D.pl
86 | Guided Surgery




Guides
Technology and Materials
Technology                                                                                           Materials for printing
                                                                                                     To make the templates, biocompatible materials must be used, with appropriate certificates
Type of technology being used depends on many factors. Templates for guided surgery can              allowing the use of these materials in medicine.
be milled out of a block of special material in a milling unit or printed on 3D printers with
dedicated resins.                                                                                    Supporting materials
                                                                                                     Many 3D printers use different substances that create additional support for complex geom-
                                                                                                     etries of printed elements. Support materials are just as relevant to the 3D printing process
•   Milled templates - are characterized by very high precision and are the most accurate.
                                                                                                     as the actual basic materials. Without the support of the object during printing, there would
    The downside is the high cost of their implementation, limiting the height of the template
                                                                                                     be no successful result. After printing, the user removes the excipient from the finished part.
    resulting from the thickness of the material (disc) and the difficulty of their application in   The support material can be special wax or resins.
    the case of complex construction. Due to the nature of the production process, it is nec-
    essary to use different offset parameter settings (tolerance - clearance). Too tight param-      3D printing in a nutshell.
    eters will prevent the template from being placed on the teeth or embedding sleeves in it.       To create a guide printed in 3D technology, you have to go through several steps of this
                                                                                                     process:
•   Printed templates are the most popular. This method of production is cheaper com-                • Creation of a virtual project (3D model) of a guide that we want to print in 3D in the
    pared to milling, and there is practically no limit to the shape and size of the guide. The          dedicated software like coDiagnostiX™.
    precision of such a template is influenced by the printing technology used, the materials        • Save the project and export it as the open STL file for the production (CAD file).
    used and the postproduction process. The most common are three printing technolo-                • Extract and divide the CAD file before sending it to the printer for layers.
    gies: DLP, SLA, and PolyJet.                                                                     • Sending a CAD / 3D file divided into a 3D printer.
                                                                                                     • The printer reads each slice in a 2D file to create a three-dimensional object.
            87




dentalprint3D.pl
88 | Guided Surgery




3D printing technologies
SLA and DLP


SLA printing technology                                                                               DLP printing technology
SLA (called stereolithography) is a rapid prototyping process. Those who use this technology          DLP (Digital Light Processing) is the oldest of 3D printing technology created by Larry Horn-
are serious about accuracy and precision. You can create objects from 3D CAD files (com-              beck in 1987.
puter generated) in just a few hours. It is a 3D printing process that is popular for details and     The principle of operation is simple: the liquid plastic resin used by the printer goes into a
accuracy. Machines using this technology produce unique models, designs, prototypes and               transparent container with resin. DLP uses a traditional light source in the form of an ordi-
various production parts. They do this by transforming liquid photopolymers (a special type           nary arc lamp. DLP uses a digital screen to project a single image of each layer across the
of plastic) into solid 3D objects, one layer at a time. The plastic cures in contact with the laser   entire platform at once. Because the projector is a digital screen, the image of each layer
beam. The printer builds each of these layers using an ultraviolet laser, directed through the        consists of square pixels, resulting in a layer formed of small rectangular blocks called voxels.
X and Y scanning mirrors. Just before each print cycle, the recoater’s blade travels                  DLP can achieve faster printing of some parts because each layer to be printed is displayed
the printed surface to ensure that each thin layer of resin spreads evenly over the printed ob-       once.
ject. The print cycle is continued in this way, building 3D objects from the bottom to the top.
                                                                                                      Supporting material and its removal
Finishing - IPA washing and curing                                                                    The elements printed in 3D technology are built layer by layer. Depending on the particular
In SLA printers, after removing the object from the printer, it is necessary to clean it in a         printing technology and the complexity of the model, this may mean that 3D printing re-
dedicated wash with isopropyl alcohol (IPA) and curing in a special chamber for exposure              quires supporting structures. Before the final treatment process, it is necessary to remove
(UV) and heating models (80 degrees Celsius) to ensure maximum mechanical properties of               such support material. In the case of SLA and DLP technology, the support material is re-
prints.                                                                                               moved with the help of drills and/or scissors.

                                                                                                      Time to print and finish a single surgical template
                                                                                                      Depending on the type of technology, the time of producing a single surgical template while
                                                                                                      maintaining the highest resolution of a given device varies from a few to several hours.
                                                                             89




Model printed in SLA technology with visible support elements.




                                                                 dentalprint3D.pl
90 | Guided Surgery




Postprocessing
SLA and DLP

                                                                                                CARES® P wash
SLA and DLP                                                                                     Wis fully automatic cleaning station. It takes approx. 6–8 minutes | No contact with
After the printing is completed, ptinted models must be treated with special attention to       sticky resins and cleaning liquids | Touch display control | Computer-controlled
achieve desired stability, strength and final shape:                                            programs ensure effective use of cleaning liquids
- IPA washing
- light curing
- finishing

Finishing - IPA washing and curing
In SLA printers, after removing the object from the printer, it is necessary to clean it in a
dedicated wash with isopropyl alcohol (IPA) and curing in a special chamber for exposure
(UV) and heating models (80 degrees Celsius) to ensure maximum mechanical properties of
prints.

Supporting material and its removal
The elements printed in 3D technology are built layer by layer. Depending on the particular
printing technology and the complexity of the model, this may mean that 3D printing re-
quires supporting structures. Before the final treatment process, it is necessary to remove
such support material. In the case of SLA and DLP technology, the support material is re-
moved with the help of drills and/or scissors.
                                                                                                CARES® P cure
                                                                                                The automated curing and finishing solution to ensure maximum performance. Pre-
                                                                                                cise wavelength of light emission from integrated light source | Revolutionary table
                                                                                                ensures consistent, even curing | Protective gas supply not required
            91




dentalprint3D.pl
92 | Guided Surgery




Validated
workflows
For Crown & Bridge models
with implant analogs and stumps




P series validated manufacturing of models. One time print, 100% fit stump.
•   The Minimal tolerance of stumps and work model
•   Constant elasticity in small and larger stumps
•   Excellent handling and haptic
•   Repeatable fit by guides
•   Maximum shaft length
•   Minimal tolerance in XY by elastic wings
•   Exact z-position by height reference
•   Easy cleaning by opening for ultrasonic cleaning
•   Easy printing by integrated base grid
                                                                                                                         93




Stumps printed in different colors with Shera resins. Stumps design patented by Rapid Shape is available in the model builder
of Straumann CARES and DWOS (Dental Wings).

                                                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
94 | Guided Surgery




Models printed with Shera resins with P30 printer.
                                                                                                             95




A new generation of precision 3D printers from CARES®: P20 and P30.
They are designed for fast and professional production of top-quality dental products.
P30 Printer is designed with automatic temperature control for continuous use without
dimensional changes of the final products. Touch door opener, 10-inch color display, and
patented Force Feedback System come standard in each unit for a maximized production
speed.




Main Features:
• Fully integrated in the validated workflow of CARES® and CoDiagnostiX™.
• Highly esthetic prints with pure color/pure transparency based on professional 385 nm UV LED
• Precise non-stop operation based on direct resin temperature regulation
• Ease of use thanks to resin handling system (RSH), automatic door and control features
• Certified auto calibration system (ACCS)
• Fast print speed makes short lab response possible by force-feedback (patented)
• Design suitable for dental labs & clinics with flat, easy-to-clean surfaces and controls

                                                                                                 dentalprint3D.pl
96 | Guided Surgery




Sleeve
calibration matrix
For the perfect fit


Sleeve offset calibration matrix
coDiagnostiX can output a sleeve calibration matrix. It allows the user to verify the sleeve
diameter offset for the sleeve models which are used in the digital drill guide. Such verification is nec-
essary as the fit of the sleeve depends on the material, the sleeve and the printing device actually used
for production, as well as on individual preferences.

A sleeve calibration matrix allows for fine adjustment of sleeve offset values. It is usually used prior to
drill guide production to make allowances for specifics of the material and printing device actually used
for production. If required, you may generate and output a calibration matrix for a sleeve, even if the
drill guide has not yet been designed.

Calibration matrix and printer model
The precision of fitting the sleeve in the template depends on many factors. One of them is the type of
printer and technology. Even if you are dealing with another model of the same printer type, you should
print the calibration matrix for each sleeve system that you plan. This approach allows you to adjust the
appropriate offset for the prepared sleeve, taking into account the specific parameters of the printer.
            97




dentalprint3D.pl
98 | Guided Surgery




Applications
                                                                               Splints and aligners       Drill guides



3D printers in DLP technology offer a large variety in the possibility
of using different materials. In dentistry, resins are used that contain
appropriate biocompatibility certificates and are often classified as
Class I or IIa medical products.

Printers and resins manufacturers cross-validate printing processes
using photopolymers to get the best results.
The range of applications continues to grow and is expanded every
year by new types of resins in terms of mechanical properties but
also of available colors.                                                            Models              Denture base

The most common applications:
• production of all kinds of models including master models
• bite splints
• orthodontic aligners
• transfer keys in orthodontic treatment
• surgical guides
• impression trays
• soft tissue masks
• temporary crowns & bridges
• production of different types of casting objects
• highly precise production of dentures or other delicate work             Temporary crowns & bridges   Impression trays
            99




dentalprint3D.pl
100 | Guided Surgery




Multi Jet Printing and PolyJetTM printing technologies                                             Removing supporting material in PolyJet technology.
In MJP (Multi Jet Printing) technology, the photopolymer is sprayed with thin layers and UV-       The support structure is in this technology a mixture of propylene, polyethylene, acryl-
cured. Multi Jet and PolyJet are technologies that use various materials during the printing       ic monomer, and glycerol. After removing the printout from the printer tray, the parts are
process at the same time. The building material for the printed model and support material         cleaned at for pressurized water in a Water Jet cleaning station. During this step, be careful
(wax or special gel) are injected from many small nozzles in a large industrial print head to      not to destroy any part that has small parts or details. Water under high pressure can easily
create the desired part.                                                                           break a delicate piece. After removing the support material, the element is immersed in a
                                                                                                   chemical bath to remove residual support. After bathing, the element is rinsed again in water
These technologies are among the most accurate and precise in a professional line of 3D            and the part is ready for use. This is a fairly quick process.
printers.
The final finishing of printed parts is a necessary step for all types of 3D printing. After the   Removal of supporting material in Multi Jet Printing technology
printing process is completed, the supporting structure from the printed element needs to          The supporting structure used is a paraffin wax. After removing parts from the printer, the
be removed. The difference between the MultiJet and Poly Jet models is minimal, except for         elements are put into a special oven to melt the wax substrate. This step may take over an
one thing - removal of support material.                                                           hour, but there is no work or supervision in it; support is removed spontaneously. After re-
                                                                                                   moving from the oven, the excess of molten wax can be wiped off. With precision elements
The Material Jetting (MJ) technology, to which the two above belong, is an additive process        with a lot of small details, the process requires additional cleaning. An ultrasonic oil bath is
that works in a similar way to 2D printers. When injecting material, a printhead (similar to the   used next to remove wax from the gaps. This step is also not supervised. After the oil bath,
printheads used for standard inkjet printing) dispenses droplets of a photosensitive material      the template needs final cleaning using the dedicated detergent to remove residual oil.
that cures under ultraviolet (UV) light to form a layer-by-layer print. Materials used in injec-
tion technology are thermoplastic photopolymers (acrylics) that exist in liquid form.
                                                                                                                                   101




Precision of the production of surgical templates
The precision of the production of surgical templates in printing technology is influenced by STL export settings, printer type, resolu-
tion, and finishing after the printing process. The leading 3D Planning and Printing Centers has undergone the process of validating
the quality and precision of prints. The validation process consists in comparing the deviations of the shape of the printed template in
relation to the standard, which is the STL file.


                                                                                                                        dentalprint3D.pl
102 | Guided Surgery




                                                                            Stratasys
                                                                            Objet 260/500 Dental Selection

                                                                            Application
                                                                            Templates, models, orthodontics




PolyJet                                           TM
3D printing technology

PolyJet is a powerful 3D printing technology that provides smooth surfaces, the accuracy
of matching computer navigation templates, orthodontic models and aligners, and models
for work on implants together with a printed elastic gum mask. Thanks to microscopic layer
resolution and accuracy of up to 16 microns, thin wall elements, and complex geometry can
be produced using the widest range of materials available in any technology.

The PolyJet 3D printer prints a stream of curable, liquid photopolymer onto a built-in tray,
creating unique details, smooth surfaces, and precision. Objet260 and Objet500 Dental Se-
lectionTM from the Stratasys are the only 3D printers for dental applications operating in
triple injection technology, i.e., PolyJet™ 3D Printing, the most advanced technology.
          103




dentalprint3D.pl
104 | Guided Surgery




  In order to guarantee the quality of the print offered by the reference laboratories, Den-
  tal Wings conducts the so-called validation. It consists in checking the level of distortion
  of the printed template in comparison to the pattern. Template view that meets the
  rigorous validation requirements.




                                                                                                 Stratasys® offers an impressive range of dental materials for one of the most innovative
                                                                                                 3D printing technologies, PolyJet™. Combining the highest accuracy, high precision and di-
                                                                                                 mensional stability, 3D printers of the Stratasys Dental series use these materials to create
                                                                                                 computer navigation templates, orthodontic brackets, prosthetic restorations and models
                                                                                                 with high precision and accuracy.

                                                                                                 •   Realistic colors, texture, and details: a 3D printer that allows you to create a rigid model
                                                                                                     base and a soft gum mask in the realistic shades of teeth and gums.
                                                                                                 •   Orthodontic models and aligners
                                                                                                 •   Templates for computer navigation
Implant model printed in PolyJetTM technology.
                                                                                      105




Implant model printed in PolyJetTM technology
The model consists of a base printed in ivory-colored material with embedded implant ana-
logs and a flexible, removable gum mask. Through the possibility of mixing materials in the
printing process, it is possible to change the elasticity of the gum mask from very soft to
hard.

                                                                           dentalprint3D.pl
106 | Guided Surgery




Disinfection                                                                                      Low-temperature sterilization of surgical templates
                                                                                                  Before sterilizing the templates, check the manufacturer’s recommendation. The vast ma-
                                                                                                  jority do not recommend sterilization in an autoclave due to the risk of deformation of the

& sterilization of guides                                                                         templates.
                                                                                                  Stratasys recommends low-temperature sterilization, such as:
                                                                                                  • Plasma sterilization with hydrogen peroxide
                                                                                                  The high energy particle used to create the plasma is a destructive factor for living matter.
                                                                                                  This leads to the elimination of electrons from some atoms, which leads to the acceleration
                                                                                                  of free electrons, atomic nuclei, and entire atoms. In the so-called “Cold” sterilization intro-
                                                                                                  duced into medical practice recently, hydrogen peroxide is used as the source of the plasma.
                                                                                                  Under the influence of electromagnetic radiation with high energy, in the conditions of high
                                                                                                  vacuum hydrogen peroxide radicals are formed which show a destructive effect in relation to
Important information                                                                             microorganisms. After running out of energy from these radicals, water and oxygen particles
                                                                                                  are formed, which are no longer a threat. The sterilization cycle takes 45-105 minutes and
Surgical templates must be subjected to a cleaning, disinfection or sterilization process after   runs at 40°C.
the manufacturing process. Depending on the technology of their production and the mate-          • Ethylene oxide (EtO) sterilization
rials used, there may be significant differences and recommendations for their preparation        Ethylene oxide is a strongly bactericidal (also affects spores) and virucidal, having the ability
before surgery. Particular attention should be paid to the manufacturer’s recommendations         to penetrate and penetrate deep into the material. It already has its activity at 400-1000
regarding the possibility of chemical and thermal treatment.                                      mg, 30-60% relative humidity and 50-60 ° C. Pure ethylene oxide or its mixture with carbon
                                                                                                  dioxide (1: 9) are used for sterilization, and the process itself is carried out in a gas-tight
                                                                                                  chamber. Ethylene oxide is used to sterilize materials and medical equipment made of plas-
Disinfection of surgical templates                                                                tics that could deform under the influence of temperature.
A common form of disinfection of surgical templates prior to their use is the use of chlorhex-
idine (chlorhexidine gluconate) bath solution. However, as research shows, this is not the
most effective method. (Smith PN1, Palenik CJ, Blanchard SB., Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants.     Sterilization of surgical templates in autoclave
2011 Mar-Apr;26(2):274-81. Microbial contamination and the sterilization/disinfection of          Sterilization of templates in an autoclave creates a risk of deformation. In response to the
surgical guides used in the placement of endosteal implants.)                                     demand of the medical market, some companies have started to introduce 3D printing ma-
The mechanism of action of chlorhexidine is based on the affinity for negative ions of the        terials that meet stringent requirements regarding the process of autoclaving. An example
cell membrane, which allows it to penetrate the bacterial cell, where it precipitates the cyto-   of such a material is SHERAprint-ortho plus UV Light-curing 3D printing resin certified as
plasm, leading to the formation of insoluble antigen-antibody complexes. The effect of this       medical device class IIa.
reaction is to inhibit the growth or destruction of the bacterial cell.                           - SHERAprint-ortho plus UV is validated for the „W&H Lisa 522, Program UNIVERSAL 121“
(Paniczko A., Waszkieł D.: Chlorheksydyna i PerioChip w lecze­niu chorób przyzębia. Maga-         sterilisation process.
zyn Stomal., 2003, XIII, 12, 31-32.)
                                                                                                                                                                               107
Surgical guides should be submerged in 70% alcohol for a minimum of 15 minutes or un-
dergo sterilization using ethylene oxide gas.




* Smith PN1, Palenik CJ, Blanchard SB., Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2011 Mar-          *Water, chlorhexidine gluconate, and diluted bleach were not totally successful in decon-
Apr;26(2):274-81. Microbial contamination and the sterilization/disinfection of surgical   taminating the surgical guides, but no growth was found after 15 minutes of immersion in
guides used in the placement of endosteal implants.                                        70% ethanol. Preferably, surgical guides should be submerged in 70% alcohol for a minimum
                                                                                           of 15 minutes or undergo sterilization using ethylene oxide gas.
                                                                                                                                                                    dentalprint3D.pl
108 | Guided Surgery




Disinfection
& sterilization of guides

                                                                                                MATERIALS AND METHODS:
                                                                                                Evaluation of CGs and LGs for bacterial contamination occurred soon after their arrival in
                                                                                                the laboratory. Some guides went directly into tubes of trypticase soy broth solution, vor-
                                                                                                texed and equally divided into two tubes. One tube went into an 80°C bath for 19 minutes,
                                                                                                while the other stayed at room temperature. After plating, half of the samples underwent
                                                                                                anaerobic incubation. All incubation was for 48 hours at 37°C. Other guides underwent
                                                                                                water rinsing or disinfection by various methods for 5 or 15 minutes or ethylene oxide gas
                                                                                                sterilization prior to sampling.

                                                                                                RESULTS:
Literature                                                                                      Untreated CG specimens showed modest levels of bacterial contamination, with most col-
                                                                                                onies coming from liquid specimens not exposed to 80°C. LG specimens had more bacte-
Smith PN1, Palenik CJ, Blanchard SB., Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2011 Mar-                 ria from both heat-treated and non-heat-treated aliquots. Chlorhexidine gluconate, diluted
Apr;26(2):274-81.                                                                               bleach, and water rinsing were not able to completely eliminate microorganisms on the spec-
Microbial contamination and the sterilization/disinfection of surgical guides used in the       imens, but no viable microorganisms were present on specimens treated with gas steriliza-
placement of endosteal implants.                                                                tion or 70% ethanol for 15 minutes.

PURPOSE:                                                                                        CONCLUSION:
The purpose of this study was twofold: (1) to estimate the level of microbial contamination     CGs and LGs, on average, had different levels of bacterial contamination prior to disinfection.
found on commercial guides (CG) and in-house laboratory guides (LG) prior to use, and (2) to    Water, chlorhexidine gluconate, and diluted bleach were not totally successful in decontam-
evaluate the antimicrobial potential of disinfectants commonly used in dentistry to decon-      inating the surgical guides, but no growth was found after 15 minutes of immersion in 70%
taminate heat-sensitive surgical guides. Ethylene oxide gas was used as the positive control;   ethanol. Preferably, surgical guides should be submerged in 70% alcohol for a minimum of
sterile water served as a negative control.                                                     15 minutes or undergo sterilization using ethylene oxide gas.
                                                                                                     109




Checklist
Before starting the procedure, always check a few elements:

The cleanliness of the template
Check if the template is clean and there are no residues of the support material.

Case number and/or Patient ID
Check if the template is consistent with the intended use of the planned treatment.

Adaptation (fit) on the model
Check the fitting of the template on the control model. The template should not sway and
have a very tight or too loose fit.

Inspection windows
Verify a close fit of the template on the teeth of the model and in the mouth.

The position of the sleeve
The metal sleeves are pressed into the template. The upper edge of the sleeve should be
clearly pressed against the hole in the template.

Surgical protocol
Familiarize yourself with the document and check the order of use of the planned tools.
Check if all items are ordered in accordance with the protocol.

Disinfection and/or sterilization
Most materials from which templates are made cannot be
sterilized in an autoclave. Follow the procedures recommended by the manufacturer of ma-
terials for a specific printer and printing technology.

                                                                                           dentalprint3D.pl
110 | Guided Surgery




Clinical Cases
           111




dentalprint3D.pl
112 | Guided Surgery




Case 1
                                                                                                     Planning, Surgery and Prosthetics
                                                                                                     Krzysztof Chmielewski, DDS, MSc
                                                                                                     Gdańsk / Poland

                                                                                                     Dental technology

Immediate implantation                                                                               Björn Roland MDT
                                                                                                     Klein-Winternheim / Germany



Description :
Diagnosis: external root resorption
Treatment: immediate implantation in position 23, non-functional immediate load, one-time abutment
Planning: coDiagnostiX™ (Dental Wings)
Tools: Guided Surgery Straumann®, Straumann® BLT SLA Roxolid® Implant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 113




Initial situation. In the case of superficial examination, one can omit a significant problem related to external root re-   During the follow-up examination, anxiety was caused at the edge of the zenith (23). The patient did not report any pain.
sorption of the tooth 23.                                                                                                    View of the destruction of the root of the tooth 23 with the granulation tissue penetrating the tooth.




A significant degree of external resorption was confirmed in the CBCT examination. The resorption depth of 3 mm was          Planning the implant position and template design for guided surgery were made in the software coDiagnostiX™ with
measured.                                                                                                                    respect to the immediate implantation.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dentalprint3D.pl
114 | Guided Surgery




Before the surgery, the laboratory delivered a template for full guided surgery and immediate implantation, a final hybrid   Hybrid abutment based on Variobase (Straumann) titanium abutment and zirconium oxide (Kuraray / Noritake). Tempo-
abutment with a temporary crown and a coping for the final crown.                                                            rary crown made of PMMA material. Coping for the final crown made of zirconium oxide.




Starting situation before surgery. To perform the surgery, Ubistesin Forte anesthesia was delivered (articaine with adren-   Removal of coronal part of tooth 23. Extensive resorption led to easy detachment of the crown from the root.
aline 1: 200,000) using the Wand device.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              115




After removal of the tooth crown, the root 23 is visible in the alveolus and the granulation tissue infiltrating from the   Removal of the root with the Benex Extraction System (Helmut Zepf Medizintechnik GmbH / Germany).
vestibular side.




Checking the fit of the guide immediately after tooth extraction. Pay attention to the fit of the template within the in-   View of the template with support on the teeth. Two inspection windows are used to verify the position of the guide. The
spection windows and whether the template balancing occurs.                                                                 T-sleeve (Straumann) sleeve is mounted in the template, and the index indicator is shown in black.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dentalprint3D.pl
116 | Guided Surgery




Straumann Guided computer navigation requires the use of a surgical tray with drills and dedicated drill holders. The   The osteotomy axis and depth is checked after the preparation is finished. There is a noticeable palatal shift of the
sequence of the used drills is in accordance with the surgical protocol.                                                preparation tip relative to the root axis.




Insertion of the Straumann Bone Level Tapered Roxolid SLA RC implant (D4.1/L14mm) is also made through the naviga-      Straumann Guided implant carrier, has depth markers marked with horizontal cuts (H2, H4 or H6) and dots indicating the
tion template. This is called full navigation.                                                                          index in the implant. The dot and mark for the index on the template (black line) should be aligned.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          117




The implant was placed in the ideal position of the aesthetic window. The vestibular line, guided between two adjacent   Final hybrid abutment based on Variobase (Straumann) is inserted after surgery. Make sure that the surface is polished
teeth at the height of the enamel-cement border, marks the boundary of the safety zone.                                  and that there is no gap between the titanium base and the zirconia.




The shape of the abutment ensures optimal support of the soft tissue emerging profile. The bevel for the crown on the    The abutment is tightened with a torque of 35Ncm. If the initial fixation of the implant is less than 35Ncm, then the
abutment is 0.5mm below the zenith of the soft tissue and should follow the shape of the profile.                        abutment should be screwed with a lower torque, e.g., 20-25Ncm. The entry for the screw is closed with a Teflon tape.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                           dentalprint3D.pl
118 | Guided Surgery




To control the amount of temporary cement, an abutment stamp is made. For its implementation, a micro brush tip and   The cementation of the temporary crown begins with the application of temporary cement (e.g. Temp Bond / 3M Espe)
material for temporary crowns were used.                                                                              to the crown and removing its excess with the previously prepared stamp.




Remove the excess of the cement. Thorough cleansing of the subgingival area determines the healing process.           Immediate non-functional load requires complete freedom of the crown in occlusion and lateral movements. Contact
                                                                                                                      points should also be unloaded.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              119




The healing process after eight days from the surgery. Lack of tissue reactions and beautiful adaptation of soft tissues   Situation after four months from the immediate implantation. A stable soft tissues around the crown, both within the
around the periphery of the temporary crown and abutment in position 23.                                                   zenith of the gum and in the level of the papilla.




The shade selection. Three shade tabs A2, A3 and A3,5 from the VITAPAN® classical color palette (Vita Zahnfabrik           Images in the reflected cross-polarized light help in the additional evaluation of the tooth’s brightness and color satu-
GmbH / Germany) are visible. Photograph with dual flash at 45 degrees on the bracket.                                      ration.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dentalprint3D.pl
120 | Guided Surgery




Additional information about the target color for the ceramic restoration in position 23 can be taken from the reference,   In the “one-time abutment” technique, the abutment remains unscrewed after it has been inserted during the implan-
which is a canine on the right side of the jaw.                                                                             tation procedure.




The information about the position of the abutment is transferred using the coping that is the base of the final crown.     Placement of the coping on the abutment and taking additional photos in polarized light for transferring the maximum
The coping has been made and delivered before the surgery and is perfectly matched to the abutment.                         information for the ceramist.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             121




Silicone impression with the coping is transferred to the laboratory. To stabilize the coping during the impression taking,   The final crown was made by firing Kurary / Noritake ceramics on the zirconium oxide coping.
a small portion of the temporary cement was applied to the crown.




The anatomical shape and color of the crown are carefully matched to the existing dentition.                                  Preparation of the stamp for cementing the final crown. From the micro brush applicator, cut off the “head.”



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dentalprint3D.pl
122 | Guided Surgery




The part of the shaft will be the basis for placing the stamp on it.   Filling the crown with material for temporary restorations such as Structur or Luxatemp.




Insertion of applicator shaft for material in the liquid phase.        After chemical polymerization, it is easy to remove the stamp from the crown.
                                                                                                                                                                                123




Final cementation of the crown with RelyX ™ U200 cement (3M Espe).   The cement is introduced using a thin mixing tip and applicator to avoid closing air bubbles.




Excess of the cement is removed with prepared in advance stamp.      Light polymerization after final positioning of the crown on the abutment.



                                                                                                                                                                     dentalprint3D.pl
124 | Guided Surgery




Removal of the polymerized material from the subgingival region using a very thin probe.                   Control examination showing the position of the implant in cross-section and stable bone volume.




The end result - preserved harmony and consistency of the shape and color of the prosthetic restoration.
           125




dentalprint3D.pl
126 | Guided Surgery




Case 2                                                                                                                          Planning, Surgery and Prosthetics
                                                                                                                                Krzysztof Chmielewski, DDS, MSc
                                                                                                                                Gdańsk / Poland

Immediate implantation                                                                                                          Dental technology
                                                                                                                                Björn Roland MDT
                                                                                                                                Klein-Winternheim / Germany



Description :

Diagnosis: External resorption of roots and inflammatory changes following extensive trauma.
Treatment: Immediate implantation, non-functional immediate load
Planning: coDiagnostiX™ (Dental Wings)
Tools and Materials: teeth supported guide for immediate implantation, Straumann Guided surgery, Straumann BLT SLActive Implant, botiss biomaterials
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      127




Following the injury, the patient lost the central incisor on the left side, and the remaining incisors were dislocated. After   3D reconstruction in the CBCT revealed a significant degree of injury to the alveoli of all upper incisors.
the injury, the teeth were splinted, and the patient was sent to our Clinic for further treatment.




In the CBCT examination, there are visible changes within the teeth. 12 - transverse root fracture, 11 and 22-dislocation,       In the first phase, an orthodontist replaced the rigid splint with a soft one and left the patient supplied in this way for
and fractures within the alveolus.                                                                                               three months to heal the tissues.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dentalprint3D.pl
128 | Guided Surgery




After three months, the patient reported an abscess located in the vestibule of the oral cavity projecting on the root of   In cross-sections, visible propagation of the fracture in the tooth 12 and the progressive external resorption of the roots
tooth 11. In the CBCT, bone and roots were remarkably damaged.                                                              of teeth 11 and 22 in the apical part and the vestibular, mesial and distal walls.




After the consultation, a treatment plan was accepted. Treatment Plan: extraction of the remaining incisors and replacing   Cleaning teeth from the remains of orthodontic brackets. Visible bone necrosis within the soft tissue between central
them with a bridge supported with two implants placed in the position of the lateral incisors using computer navigation.    incisors.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           129




Preparation for planning and making the template starts with the impression taking with alginate to pour the models.   Upper jaw model.




Preparation of immediate temporary restoration with a thermoplastic foil based on wax-up of the central incisor.       The thermoplastic foil was filled in the place of the missing tooth with a composite material. The patient is wearing such
                                                                                                                       a temporary solution until the start of surgical treatment.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            dentalprint3D.pl
130 | Guided Surgery




The same jaw model that was used to make the temporary foil was scanned in the laboratory to create a digital model   The digital model of the upper jaw - the beginning of treatment (STL file).
and was saved in STL format




Then, the incisors planned to be extracted were cut from the model, and the model was scanned again.                  In the scanning process, a second jaw model was obtained, this time without incisors. It will be used to design a template
                                                                                                                      for computer navigation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  131




The coDiagnostiX ™ (Dental Wings) software was used to plan the position of the implants and to design the template.       In the process of segmentation of images obtained from the CBCT examination, an image of the jaw was isolated which
                                                                                                                           was stained green.




Then the images of the bone, soft tissues, and teeth were merged. Proper integration of DICOM and STL files is the basis   Planning the position of implants in relation to the level of hard and soft tissues helps to build final aesthetic prosthetic
for precise planning and template execution.                                                                               reconstruction.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dentalprint3D.pl
132 | Guided Surgery




Planning the implant in the position of the tooth 12 and setting the axis to obtain retention in the bone of the alveolar   Planning the position of the implant on the left side in the maxilla. Moving the axis to the palate for better anchoring in
ridge.                                                                                                                      the bone.




Template design for full navigation and immediate implantation. Four inspection windows are located in the position of      3D view of the template design. The thickness of the wall, position of the inspection windows or the location of the
molars and canines. The support on the teeth provides stability for the template.                                           support points on the teeth or mucous membrane is just some of the parameters that can be customized.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           133




Designing process of the template ends with the export as the open STL file. This allows printing the template or milling   Printed template with embedded sleeves for full Straumann Guided navigation. Additionally, indicators for positioning
on any printer or milling unit.                                                                                             the implant index are marked with a black marker.




From sent STL files, the dental laboratory in Germany prepared temporary restorations. The first stage was the printout     Preparation of the silicone index (Merz Dental TS 5000) for the gingival mask.
of the jaw model.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
134 | Guided Surgery




The silicone index made from the printed model should accurately reflect the state and position of the soft tissues in the   Preparing the index for further use. Cutting the index and revealing the position of the teeth for the reference of passive
anterior section of the jaw.                                                                                                 seating on the model.




Preparation of the form for duplication of the printed model with a silicone material (Zermack Elite Double 22 Fast).        Duplicated plaster model (Picodent QuatroRock white).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                135




Selection of the area to be replaced by the gingival silicone mask.                                                           Gypsum was reduced in the thickness at the place of selection by a thickness of 2-3mm.




In the position of the planned implants, the model was drilled through the full thickness through the base. The size of the   Implant analogs are fixed in the model using the template for navigation. Based on the information obtained in the coDi-
holes must be made in the axis of the implants and be larger than the diameter of the implant’s analog.                       agnostiX™, the technician knows all the necessary parameters related to the implant position.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dentalprint3D.pl
136 | Guided Surgery




Fixing the implants from the base of the model using acrylic or light-curing resin.                                            Fixing the implants by filling the space between the plaster and the analogs ensures stable seating and prevents rotation.




In the silicone index, places for cutting two holes through the full thickness of the index are marked. Analogs in the model   The injection of silicone for the gum mask takes place through one of the openings. The second opening is the venting
can be protected with Teflon or wax. Use a silicone insulator, preferably a spray.                                             channel to avoid closing air bubbles in the mask.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       137




The silicone gingiva mask made of Picodent Majestik Gingiimplant reproduces the soft tissue system.                  To improve the stabilization of the mask, you can create additional cavities before silicone injection. Repeated removal
                                                                                                                     and putting on the mask should not affect its condition.




One-time final hybrid abutments have been made based on Variobase (Straumann/Basel/Switzerland) and zirconia oxide   Bonding of the titanium base with zirconium oxide with Kuraray / Noritake Panavia V5 opaque cement.
(Kuraray/Noritake Katana HT 12)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dentalprint3D.pl
138 | Guided Surgery




The temporary bridge design was made in the Exocad software after scanning the position of the abutments on the      Bridge veneering using Bredent VisioLign material.
model. The bridge was milled with a reduction and veneered with a composite material (Bredent Bio HIPC, color A2).




Checking the bridge seating and fitting on abutments. An increased “offset” between bridge and abutments is neces-   A set of prosthetic elements delivered by the laboratory - the temporary bridge and the final hybrid abutments.
sary to compensate discrepancies.
           139




dentalprint3D.pl
140 | Guided Surgery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             141




Extraction of the teeth qualified for removal. The tooth 12 was removed in two parts due to the existing fracture. Anti-   Delicate luxation movements were applied during extraction to not cause additional cracks and stresses within the
biotic (Clindamycin 600MIP) was delivered a day before the procedure.                                                      alveolar ridge.




Removal of the lateral incisor root on the right using the Benex extraction system.                                        The fitting of a template for navigation designed for immediate implantation is possible only after removing the teeth.
                                                                                                                           Check the accuracy of fitting of the template in the inspection windows.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              dentalprint3D.pl
142 | Guided Surgery




Full thickness flap elevation from the vestibular side. An incision is made on the top of the ridge through the interdental   Bone preparation with Straumann Guided computer navigation system starts with the use of 2.2mm pilot drill. The drill
papillae with the split so that the base of the papilla remains on the bone.                                                  has a built-in stopper, and the preparation is at full depth according to the surgical plan.




The Straumann BLT Roxolid Guided implants with the SLActive surface are placed through the template. Thanks to this,          The depth of the implant placement and implant index setting is fully controlled and proceeds precisely in accordance
the highest precision and accuracy is achieved.                                                                               with the plan made in the coDiagnostiX™ program. Primary stability of the implants was above 25Ncm.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                143




The positioning of the implant index is set by aligning the dots on the implant carrier in the same position with the ref-   Implant position visible after removing the template and unscrewing the implant carriers. The prosthetic platform is in a
erence line marked on the template (marked in black).                                                                        perfect place for aesthetics and stability and is moved about 2mm from the vestibular plate.




Try-in of hybrid abutments takes place before the start of augmentation. The abutments were tightened with a force of        Checking the bridge position to confirm the correct position of implants and abutments.
about 15Ncm.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dentalprint3D.pl
144 | Guided Surgery




Augmentation of the alveolar process with a mixture of biomaterials: allograft (maxgraft®/botiss biomaterials), xenograft   Coverage of the biomaterial with two layers of collagen pericardium membrane (jason® membrane/botiss biomaterials)
(cerabone /botiss biomaterials) and the addition of platelet-rich fibrin (APRF).
          ®
                                                                                                                            and additionally an APRF membrane layer.




Sewing without tension, 5-0 and 6-0 polypropylene sutures. Entrance to the abutments was closed with Teflon tape. On        In the site after the extraction of tooth 11, visible open healing with a layer of 3D collagen matrix (mucoderm®/botiss
the vestibular side in position 11, visible remains of an active fistula.                                                   biomaterials) and APRF membranes.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           145




Cementing of a temporary bridge for temporary cement. In positions 11 and 21, the “ovate pontic” have been designed.   The bridge was completely relieved in occlusion, and the patient was informed about the limitations in the quality of food
The shape and color of temporary restoration in harmony with the natural teeth was obtained.                           consumed and the manner of its reception.




X-ray crossection in the position 22 to control the implant position.                                                  X-ray crossection in the position 12 to control the implant position.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                            dentalprint3D.pl
146 | Guided Surgery




Objective evaluation of the precision of the procedure by comparing the planned and the position achieved. Tools from   Evaluation of the implant’s position is done by submitting CBCT images from planning and after-surgery. The program
the coDiagnostiX™ program were used. The 3D offset difference is obtained at the level of 0.18mm to 0.23mm.             calculates differences and gives discrepancies in the form of so-called offset in the area of the apex and implant platform.




Healing process and control appointment combined with the removal of sutures after two weeks from the surgery.          Healing after 4 months from the surgery. Visible soft tissue deficiency mesially at the implant in position 12.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              147




Image of soft tissue healing with a beautifully formed soft tissue imitating the central papilla after 19 months from the   Due to the change in the position of the soft tissue at the abutments, it was decided to change the concept of the pros-
surgery.                                                                                                                    thetic solution and the decision was made to make a screw-retained bridge.




Stable and healthy soft tissue situation within the emergence profile at implants level and in the pontic site.             The closed tray impression technique was used to transfer the implants position.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dentalprint3D.pl
148 | Guided Surgery




Mounting of impression transfers and impression caps.                                                                   Silicone impression with laboratory implant analogs in place.




Color information transfer. The picture with a dual flash unit at 45 degrees on the bracket. Color temperature 5500K.   Additional photos were taken with a filter for cross-polarized photography (polar_eyes/emulation.me)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     149




Designing the framework in the Exocad program.                                                                          Designing the framework in the Exocad software and changing the prosthetic axis with Variobase AS abutments (Strau-
                                                                                                                        mann).




The framework was milled from a zirconia disk (Kuraray / Noritake Katana HT 12) and then sintered in a Dekema Austro-   Control of the framework on the plaster model.
mat 664i furnace at 1500°C for 120 minutes according to the manufacturer’s instructions.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dentalprint3D.pl
150 | Guided Surgery




By aesthetic analysis, it was decided to improve the effect by the addition of two prepless veneers for canines.   View of the work before the installation of Variobase abutments (Straumann).




Variobase abutments were cemented in the construction with the Kuraray/Noritake CZR opaque cement, color A1.       Work set on a plaster model. Veneering the bridge structure and veneers were made using A1 ceramic (Kuraray / Norita-
                                                                                                                   ke CZR) in the Dekema Austrat 624 furnace in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             151




In the case of Variobase AS (Straumann) abutments, which belong to the group of abutments with a dynamic screw it is   The possibility of redirecting the prosthetic axis to the implant axis (up to 25 degrees) with the help of the Variobase AS
necessary to use a dedicated screwdriver and screws.                                                                   (Straumann) abutments allows performing aesthetic screw-retained work even in difficult conditions.




Image of soft tissues prior to the placement of the final prosthetic work.                                             The condition and condition of soft tissues indicates a healthy and stable substrate. The thickness of the gingival profile
                                                                                                                       and the shape of the alveolar ridge are the foundation for the aesthetic effect.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
152 | Guided Surgery




View of cemented veneers on the canines and closing the screw access with the Teflon tape.   Closure of the screw channels with flow composite with the A1 color.




The image after prosthetic treatment was finished.                                           The condition after 3 years from the beginning of surgical treatment demonstrates a stable and satisfactory result of
                                                                                             treatment achieved thanks to precise planning and the use of the latest technologies.
           153




dentalprint3D.pl
154 | Guided Surgery




Cae 3                                                                                                                                Planning, Surgery and Prosthetics
                                                                                                                                     Krzysztof Chmielewski, DDS, MSc


Implantation with bone reduction
                                                                                                                                     Gdańsk / Poland

                                                                                                                                     Dental Technology

template
                                                                                                                                     Stefan Rempelbauer MDT
                                                                                                                                     Lenzing / Austria



Description :
Diagnosis: Teeth mobility of the third degree in the anterior region of the mandible and extensive bone loss in the molars region,
Treatment plan: Immediate implantation, immediate functional loading
Planing software: coDiagnostiX™ (Dental Wings)
Tools and Materials: bone reduction guide, guide for implantation, Straumann Guided surgery set, Straumann BLT SLActive implants,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 155




Initial situation. Partial upper prosthesis with clamps on three molars. In the jaw, extensive free end situations. When the   Free end situation and high mobility of the teeth caused by poor bone support in the alveolar ridge were the reasons for
patient came to our Clinic, she had an orthodontic appliance.                                                                  transferring to a prosthetic restoration based only on implants in the edentulous situation.




On the basis of intra-oral analysis and bone status, implant planning included the removal of residual teeth in the man-       Data segmentation and staining of the bone and teeth layer of the mandible in blue.
dible and immediate implantation of 4 implants in the anterior region.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dentalprint3D.pl
156 | Guided Surgery




File integration. The plaster model of the mandible was scanned in the laboratory and the STL file was merged together   In the case of free end deficits, it is recommended to take a CBCT examination with a radiological template with x-ray
with the images obtained in the Cone Beam Computed Tomography (DICOM) examination.                                       markers for optimal data integration.




Merging of another layer with STL image by adding another scan with the wax-up model of the missing teeth.               It is easy to create a wax-up for temporary prosthetic work by setting the denture teeth in the existing patient’s bite. An
                                                                                                                         integrated second scan with the wax-up is visible.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 157




The process of planning the position of implants depends on the available bone volume and the type of temporary res-        In order to optimally position the implants, a plane was established to reduce the bone level, the excess of which resulted
toration — the visible layer of mandibular segmentation is stained in green.                                                from the adaptive process.




Implantation in the edentulous mandible or with extensive tooth loss requires planning an additional stabilization of the   Three pins to stabilize the template are planned in the spaces between the final implants. Their position must include
template on the bone to avoid displacement during surgical procedures.                                                      safe distances and proper anchoring in the dense bone.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dentalprint3D.pl
158 | Guided Surgery




Performing the procedure precisely required three templates. The first tooth-based template is used to drill holes for    The first template is based on the teeth in the front section and on the mucous membrane in the distal region.
the stabilizing pins.




The ability to disable individual segmentation layers allows you to plan the next template. The bone reduction template   The window in the reduction template is a planned reference for the surgeon to perform bone reduction during the
in the front region of the mandible is fixed with pins in pre-prepared places.                                            procedure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 159




The position of the stabilizing pins is selected based on the available bone, the space between the planned implants or    The angulation of the stabilizing pin takes into account the depth of the vestibule and the technical aspect of its seating.
teeth and the insertion axis.                                                                                              The picture shows the pin with the sleeve (yellow color). Mucous thickness determines the distance of the sleeves.




The third template planned in this case is the template for Straumann Guided protocol. It will be used for the osteotomy   The template for full navigation has dedicated titanium sleeves with an internal diameter of 5mm. The reference posi-
preparation and for implants placement through the guide.                                                                  tions for the index in the implant will also be marked on the template.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dentalprint3D.pl
160 | Guided Surgery




Position 42 - The location of the planned Straumann BLT NC Roxolid implant (diameter 3.3mm and length 14mm) as well      Position 44 - bone reduction level varies in individual cross-sections. The implant will be inserted in the alveolar ridge
as the bone reduction plane and the cross-section through the reduction template (pink color) are visible.               with the safety bone volume around the implant.




Position 32 - length and diameter of the implant take into account the possibility of planning an immediate functional   Position 35 - late implantation on the left side in the mandible. Reduction of the ridge gives a safe volume of the bone
load. Places with reduced bone density may affect primary implant stability.                                             around the implant at the level of the top of the ridge.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             161




Planning in the coDiagnostiX™ software enables selection of the Straumann BLT NC implant, an abutment for screw-re-       In position 42, an abutment for screw-retained restoration with a diameter of 3.5mm is planned. The small diameter with
tained restoration and the selection of its gingival height and angulation.                                               a straight abutment leaves a larger volume for the temporary restoration around the temporary sleeve.




Template design for positioning and drilling for pins for anchoring the template to the mandibular bone. Prepared holes   A ready template printed in PolyJet™ technology on a Stratasys printer. Visible are sleeves, which are guides for drills
will be used to position the other two templates.                                                                         and pins.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
162 | Guided Surgery




Printed bone reduction template. The resin used for the production of this type of templates (Stratasys MED610) must   The window in the template will allow you to position the template to create a reference for the alveolar bone reduction.
meet the highest rigors of safety and have appropriate approvals.




Printed template for osteotomy and implant placement.                                                                  All sleeves are positioned with the press-fit. Printing technology will influence the offset setting.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           163




Based on STL files and planning the position of implants, a model with a soft tissue mask and embedded implant analogs       The model has been printed and consists of three elements: a model base, analogs, and a removable elastic gum mask.
were created before the procedure.




The position of the implant analogs is related to the depth of implant placement according to the plan and the position of   Checking the position of the temporary sleeves to fix the temporary restoration.
the index. The picture shows the Straumann abutments for screw-retained restorations on the Straumann BLT implants.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
164 | Guided Surgery




Prepared temporary work. The bridge is made of PMMA material that will be connected to the sleeves in the oral cavity.   The reference for the temporary restoration was the position of the natural teeth. The optimum position for the pros-
View from the lingual side. The distal stabilizing supporting elements are visible in the molar region.                  thetic axis was taken into account during implant planning. Access to the screws is from the lingual and occlusal side.




Try-in on a printed model of abutments, temporary sleeves, and temporary restoration.                                    The prepared holes in the temporary restoration give the space for the material to connect the temporary sleeves.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               165




The situation before surgery. The administration of anesthesia in the vestibular part and on the lingual side of the den-   Setting the template on the patient’s teeth and after drilling through the sleeves, placing the stabilizing pins to check
tition is sufficient for this type of surgery.                                                                              the stability of the guide.




After removing the teeth, the full thickness flap is raised, and the bone reduction template is placed. The template is     The window in the template determines the level at which the bone reduction will be carried out.
fixed by stabilizing pins.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                dentalprint3D.pl
166 | Guided Surgery




Bone reduction using a piezo surgery (Mectron). The type of tools used depends on the operator and we can use for this   After the bone reduction is made, the basis for preparation for the implants is revealed.
purpose drills, bone saw as well as chisel and Luer type bone forceps.




Setting the template for full navigation and stabilizing it with pins in the bone.                                       Guided surgery with the Straumann Guided instruments follows the surgical plan generated in the coDiagnostiX™. View
                                                                                                                         of the handle for the pilot drill embedded in the template sleeve.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              167




The pilot drill preparation is to the full depth until the drill stops on the collar of the drill holder. Three lengths of the drills   Osteotomy for the Straumann BLT NC implant is made with two drills: a pilot drill (2.2mm) and a drill with a diameter of
are available and the correct size is given in the surgical protocol.                                                                   2.8mm. The drills sequence is also given in the surgical protocol.




The Straumann BLT SLActive NC implant placement through a template with the help of a dedicated adapter. Horizontal                     Implant in position 35 - final position reached after insertion of the implant. A depth of seating and index position (Loxim
lines are a reference for the depth of implant placement. The vertical lines are indicators for the position of the index.              implant carrier) is following the plan.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dentalprint3D.pl
168 | Guided Surgery




Implants inserted into the bone according to the surgical plan. Loxim implant carriers are at the same time an indication   The precision of insertion of implants in the alveolar ridge is visible. The volume of bone around the implant platforms
of the depth of implant placement in the bone.                                                                              is also visible.




Abutments for screw-retained temporary restoration in place. Straight abutments with a diameter of 3.5mm (blue color)       The position of prosthetic elements from the occlusal view. The flap was not additionally mobilized.
and temporary sleeves are in place, and an angulated 17o abutment in position 35 is visible.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 169




Try-in of a temporary bridge. The span of the bridge restores the ten teeth.                                       Suturing the soft tissue without tension with 5-0 monofilaments.




A flow light-cured composite can be used to connect the temporary restoration with sleeves or use another acryl-   Restoration in place. The sleeves are sealed with a Teflon tape and closed with a flow composite.
ic-based material.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       dentalprint3D.pl
170 | Guided Surgery




Temporary restoration fixed to the implants.                                                               The healing process after 2 weeks from the surgery.




After a period of 3 months, temporary work was unscrewed and the condition of soft tissues was assessed.   During the healing process, the level of soft tissue is stabilized around the abutments. In the case of screw-retained
                                                                                                           restoration, the replacement of the abutments due to the soft tissue height change may be necessary.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         171




Hybrid, removable denture as the final restoration was selected. The Straumann® Novaloc® Retentive System for hybrid   Together with its durable PEEK matrices, the Novaloc® Retentive System provides a unique and long-lasting attachment
dentures offers an innovative carbon-based abutment coating with an excellent wear resistance.                         performance. Straight and angled abutments (15°) are available with retention inserts force varying from 300g to 2550g.




Novaloc® abutments in place. The Mounting Collar blocks out the area surrounding the abutment, preventing that resin   Titanium Matrix Housings with Mounting Collars prepared for fixation.
or a bonding agent flows into the Matrix Housing and embedding the abutment.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          dentalprint3D.pl
172 | Guided Surgery




The prosthesis base with the prepared place for seating Novaloc® matrix housings. In the case of a prosthesis with a   Relining with a silicone material to evaluate early contact points of the housings with the prosthesis. The denture should
narrow base, it is necessary to make a metal reinforcement.                                                            fit passively.




The Novaloc® housings can be fixed in the denture with acrylic materials.                                              Material Ufi Gel hard placed in the denture.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           173




After the polymerization in the patient’s mouth, the prosthesis can be removed. It is recommended to use inserts with   Four retention inserts with a holding force of approximately 750g each. With increasing comfort of use, it may be neces-
low retention in the first phase.                                                                                       sary to increase the retention force by replacing the inserts with a stronger one.




                                                                                                                        The decision about the type of final restoration depends on many factors. The hybrid denture with Novaloc® retentive
                                                                                                                        system is an economical solution as well as optimizing hygiene. In the presented case, the four-month period of use of
                                                                                                                        temporary screw-retained bridge allowed the patient to check whether maintaining good hygiene is not a problem.
Final work in the patient’s mouth.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                           dentalprint3D.pl
174 | Guided Surgery




Case 4                                                                                                                Planning, Surgery and Prosthetics
                                                                                                                      Krzysztof Chmielewski, DDS, MSc


Immediate implantation - bridge
                                                                                                                      Gdańsk / Poland

                                                                                                                      Dental Technology
                                                                                                                      Björn Roland MDT
                                                                                                                      Klein-Winternheim / Germany



Description :
Diagnosis: Teeth mobility of the third degree in the anterior region of the maxilla due to the periodontal desease.
Treatment plan: Immediate implantation, immediate non functional loading
Planing software: coDiagnostiX™ (Dental Wings)
Tools and Materials: guide for implantation, Straumann BLT Guided surgery set, Straumann BLX SLActive implants,
                                                                                                                                                                                        175




Initial situation in the mouth. Front teeth splinted with the composite. Non-stable situation and high mobility of the   OPG x-ray representing the initial situation.
incisors related to the bone loss.




Loss of the soft tissue attachment and changed position is also visible from the palatal side.                           Cross-section through the long axis of the teeth.



                                                                                                                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
   176 | Guided Surgery




Segmentation of the upper jaw - front view.                                                                              Segmentation fo the upper jaw - occlusal view.




Process of matching data between DICOM and STL. The precision of integrity of the data is one of the essential element   Alignment and registration. Different views in the cross section windows allow checking the precision of data.
to reach the accuracy of guided surgery — mark at least three corresponding regions on both sets.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              177




Aligned data from CBCT (DICOM - green) and scanner (STL - blue).                                                           Artifacts from prosthetic restorations may make data integration difficult. Indication of common points between data is
                                                                                                                           the basis for the correct implementation of this operation.




The coDiagnostiX® allows you to match multiple STL files. In this case, another model is added with the incisors removed   The picture illustrates integration between STL models differing only with the presence of incisors. The interpenetration
(pink color).                                                                                                              of colors (blue and pink) is a desirable image.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dentalprint3D.pl
   178 | Guided Surgery




The positioning of the implants concerning the bone level and surrounding tissue - front view.                           Planning of the vertical axis of the implants with a plan to deliver screw-retained restoration.




The positioning of the implants concerning the bone level and surrounding tissue - front view with applied information   The position of the patient’s teeth is a reference for the location of the implants and the temporary prosthetic restoration.
about the soft and hard tissue.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   179




Continuation of planning with the STL model with teeth removed. Measurement tools help in assessing the thickness of         Occlusal view. The planned position allows for obtaining the desired volume of soft tissues for the aesthetics and stability
the mucosa and the height of the future abutments.                                                                           of future restoration.




Planning the position of the sleeves. Distance from the sleeve to the implant is measured in the Straumann Guided sur-       Sleeves for Straumann fully guided surgery for BLT implants are 5mm in the internal diameter. Distance in between the
gery from the lower margin of the sleeve to the coronal part of the implant. Three positions are available H2, H4, and H6.   sleeve and the neighboring crown of the tooth needs to be saved for the guide material.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    dentalprint3D.pl
   180 | Guided Surgery




Design of the guide. Inspection windows are added in the mesial surfaces of the canines. It allows me to verify the pas-   If there is limited space in between the sleeve and the tooth, we prefer to select the “fit to form” geometry like in this
sive fit but also leave more space for the handpiece with the drill.                                                       case.




Cross section through the implant axis, showing also sleeves and guide in position 12.                                     Visible cross-section through the implant axis 22. Part of the sleeve, which is embedded in the soft tissue, will not be
                                                                                                                           surrounded by the guide’s material.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               181




Extraction of the teeth with infiltration anesthesia.                                Left central incisor with less than three mm bone support around the apical area of the root.




Lateral incisor with a visible zone of the remained periodontal attachment height.   Soft tissue architecture after extractions. If it’s possible flapless procedure is preferred to keep the soft tissue level.



                                                                                                                                                                                               dentalprint3D.pl
182 | Guided Surgery




Trying the template for navigation in the mouth. Compared to the soft tissue scan before the surgery, the retraction of      Occlusal view. The guide fit is checked within inspection windows and also with general stability over the dentition.
the soft tissue in the area of the central papilla is visible after teeth extraction.




Drilling sequence is performed according to the surgical plan for the BLT implant. Start with the pilot drill 2.2mm in the   Next drill in the sequence is 2.8mm in the diameter. Drill handle fits the selected drill.
diameter. Drill handle collar is +1mm - also selected according to the surgical report from coDiagnostiX software.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           183




Regular surgical tray for the Straumann BLX implant system is small and compact and it contains all the instruments for   At the time of case preparation, there was no BLX guided surgery set available and final preparation and implant inser-
all the indications.                                                                                                      tion was done with conventional instruments free hand.




BLX implant is fully tapered implant with the design dedicated to immediate solutions.                                    The implant size selected is Straumann BLX 4.5mm in diameter and 12mm long. Roxolid (TiZr) alloy in 20% stronger
                                                                                                                          compared to the titanium alloys grade four.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             dentalprint3D.pl
184 | Guided Surgery




BLX implant is delivered in the sterile package with SLActive surface. Packaging of the implant is different than usual.        Implant removed from the packaging before entering the mouth. The SLActive surface accelerates the deposition of
The implant is held in place with a basal pin. To retrieve the implant, a dedicated instrument is used as the implant holder.   active cells on the implant surface.




Placement of the implant from a free hand is done by machine driven instruments. It is necessary to control the axis of         Second implant during placement. BLX implant length fits the preparation made with a BLT drill. Thanks to active thread
the implant by the operator. In the position of the missing tooth, the implant reached the torque over 60Ncm.                   design implant smoothly penetrate into the bone. The torque reached >60Ncm.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       185




For the immediate temporary restoration two temporary abuments were selected.                                      Position of the temporary abutments in the front view. In case of more significant divergence of the implant I will prefer
                                                                                                                   to select angled screw-retained abutments and achieve desirable axis for the temporary sleeves.




As the temporary bridge, the laboratory technician prepared the “Shell” type bridge made of PMMA (shade A2). The   Titanium sleeves we are sealing with the Teflon tape before connecting the materials. Fixing of the PMMA and sleeves,
shape is a copy from the initial scan of the situation in the mouth before the surgery.                            we did with flowable composite.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dentalprint3D.pl
186 | Guided Surgery




Situation visible after the bridge is removed. Position of the implants is in the perfect location for bone and soft tissue    Augmentation of the postextraction sockets with small particles of xenograft material (Cerabone®, Botiss biomaterials).
stability.




I am sealing the sockets with two layers of the collagen sponge (Diacoll collagen fleece - Botiss biomaterials) to cover the   The temporary bridge ready for placement after finishing. Two “ovate pontics” will help to seal the sockets and keep the
biomaterial and stabilize the clot.                                                                                            soft tissue architecture.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      187




Placing a temporary bridge. The strength with which the bridge is screwed depends on the torque obtained at the stage     Checking the contact points with the articulating paper 200 microns (Bausch/Germany).
of implant placement. In this case, the torque was 35Ncm.




Occlusal view with no marking points in the bridge after the adjustment. The access to the screws is sealed with Teflon   The situation in the mouth immediately after the surgery. Shape and color of the temporary bridge help to keep the
tape and flowable composite.                                                                                              harmony of the smile.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dentalprint3D.pl
188 | Guided Surgery




Color transfer to the laboratory with photographs. Cross polarized reflected technque is used with the polar_eye® filter   The lower dentition is photographed as well in the same technique to send reliable information about the color.
(emulation.me).




Digital impression technique is possible with BLX implants. Dedicated scanbody is selected (Straumann CARES® RB /          Mount the Mono Scanbody with the screw to the implant. Use the Straumann® SCS Screwdriver for this step. Check for
WB Mono Scanbody).                                                                                                         proper fit and for any rotational or vertical looseness of the scanbody in the implant. Hand-tighten the screw.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            189




Avoid any contact of the Mono Scanbody to the approximal teeth. The Mono Scanbody is now ready for scanning.          Scnning the position of the implants with the intraoral scanner (Trios® 3Shape/Denmark).




Mesio structure prepared with Scan&Shape service in Germany. The printed model is equipped with digital lab analogs   Printed models in the position based on the bite registration with the intraoral scanner.
for the BLX implants.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dentalprint3D.pl
190 | Guided Surgery




Front view of the mesio structure before ceramic layering.                  Final restoration before connecting with the abutments.




Straumann original components: RB/WB Variobase® for Bar/Bridge abutments.   The Cementation Aid is specifically developed for the Variobase® for Bridge/Bar Cylindrical. It supports a fast and simple
                                                                            cementation procedure.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  191




Insert dedicated Cementation Aid into each screw channel until it “clicks.”             Crossection through the Variobase abutment sealed with Cementation Aid to protect the screw channel.




Cementation step. Apply self-adhesive or dual cure dental cement through access hole.   Stop application of the cement when excess cement emerges from the abutment base.



                                                                                                                                                                                       dentalprint3D.pl
192 | Guided Surgery




Finished bridge after curing and final polishing of the base after cementation.                                            Close-up of the RB/WB Variobase® for Bar/Bridge abutments after cementation in the restoration.




Healed situation four months after surgery. The architecture of the soft tissue is preserved with emergence profiles for   Soft tissue healing represents healthy status.
crowns and pontics.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          193




Delivery of the final restoration.                                                                                 Access holes to the fixing screws in the final restoration are in a perfect position according to the initial planning in the
                                                                                                                   coDiagnostiX.




Integration to the soft tissue. Gentle soft tissue anemization on the day of delivery of prosthetic restoration.   The access holes were sealed with Teflon tape and flowable composite (G-aenial Universal Flo A1/GC)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                          dentalprint3D.pl
194 | Guided Surgery




 X-ray control at the time of implantation.   X-ray control 4 months later after the final bridge delivery.




 Final bridge in the full smile display.
           195




dentalprint3D.pl
196 | Guided Surgery




Case 5                                                                                                       Planning, Surgery and Prosthetics
                                                                                                             Maja Chmielewska, DDS


Late implantation - lateral incisor
                                                                                                             Gdańsk / Poland

                                                                                                             Dental Technology
                                                                                                             SmileClinic LAB
                                                                                                             Gdańsk / Poland



Description :
Diagnosis: Situation six months after implant loss due to the lack of integration
Treatment plan: Late implantation, open healing
Planing software: coDiagnostiX™ (Dental Wings)
Tools and Materials: guide for implantation, Neodent GM Guided surgery set, Neodent GM Helix Aqua implant,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        197




Initial situation. Temporary bridge in place in the position of the missing upper right lateral incisor.            Situation after removal of the temporary bridge.




Selection of the implant from the coDiagnostiX library - implant type and size: Neodent GM Helix with length 13mm   The planning process of the implant position. Brown line is an outline of the soft tissue acquired from the IO scanner.
and diameter 3.5mm

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        dentalprint3D.pl
198 | Guided Surgery




STL file generated with the intraoral (IO) scanner and implant position according to the initial planning.   The coDiagnostiX software allows importing more than one STL file. It helps to superimpose the layers with the wax-up
                                                                                                             or prescan with a temporary restoration to visualize the future tooth position.




Tangential view - positioning of the implant with respect to the distance to the adjacent roots.             A cross-sectional view of the implant position to the soft tissue and the temporary crown position (blue outline).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        199




Selection of the Regular Guided Sleeve from the Neodent library in the coDiagnostiX software. The sleeve should be   Cross-section with the position of the sleeve (blue) above the soft tissue (brown outline). The two sleeve positions are
positioned above the soft tissue level.                                                                              available: 5 mm (H9) or 7 mm(H11), considering 9 and 11 mm from the upper part of the sleeve to the implant platform.




Design surgical guide: specifying a surgical guide’s insertion direction.                                            Design surgical guide: specify the surgical guides’ contact surfaces and adjust the sleeve mount diameter if necessary.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         dentalprint3D.pl
200 | Guided Surgery




 Design surgical guide: adjust surgical guide’s wall thickness and its offset. Wall thickness of 3.0mm is selected to achieve   Design surgical guide: add custom inspection windows. The size and position of each window can be adjusted individ-
 the stability o the manufactured guide. The offset affects the fit of the guide.                                               ually.




 Design surgical guide: add custom labels to distinguish between different surgical guides.                                     Design surgical guide: Finalization. At this step, you can specify how it should be displayed and export the surgical guide
                                                                                                                                for manufacturing.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          201




Export final surgical guide. Save surgical guide to the STL file. At this step, verify and specify final digital guide properties   IMPORTANT: Select best matching offset for a sleeve with a calibration matrix. The sleeve diameter offset depends on
like offsets and wall thickness before printing.                                                                                    the printer individually. You must save and print calibration matrix at first to know which offset to select.




Surgical guide applied to the project. Inspection windows and labeling are visible.                                                 Inspection windows next to the sleeve position help to determine the fit of the surgical guide and easily insert the
                                                                                                                                    instruments and handpiece.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               dentalprint3D.pl
202 | Guided Surgery




   STL file of the surgical guide generated with coDiagnostiX for manufacturing.                                                  Surgical guide printed with Stratasys Objet 260 Dental Selection printer. The sleeve fits perfectly with press-fit to the
                                                                                                                                  calibrated geometry in the printed guide.




   Surgical guide in place - intraoral verification of the printed guide. The teeth visible in all inspection windows should be   Stability of the surgical guide depends on the wall thickness and design. Extended size of the guide to the premolars
   in contact with the guide’s material.                                                                                          helps to keep the guide in place and give access to keep it in place with fingers.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    203




A printed guide with engraved rotation markers. Black lacquer was used to distinguish the position of the marker clearly.   The punch (mucosa extractor) is an optional surgical instrument with a contra-angle fitting on one edge and a cutting
                                                                                                                            cylindrical format on the other. Its indication is for circular incision in the mucosa before bone bed preparation.




The punch is color-coded according to the diameter of the sleeve. Contact to the bone limits the insertion depth of the     Removal of the remaining soft tissue ring, which was attached to the bone.
instrument. The indicated speed (rpm) for drilling is 60 rpm.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          dentalprint3D.pl
204 | Guided Surgery




     The Neodent® Guided Surgery Kit for Grand Morse™ is designed for all bone types. Color-coded sequences help for a            Tapered Guided Surgery Drills are indicated to prepare the osteotomy, following the sequence based on implant type and
     reliable working process.                                                                                                    diameter, as chosen in the preoperative plan.




     The drills have to be used together with the corresponding drill guides (handles) and sleeves fixed in the surgical guide.   Drill diameter 3.5mm is used in the next step to finish the osteotomy. Depth lines on the drills are marked to ensure
     Rotation speed used for the drill is 800 rpm.                                                                                depth control. The drills are without physical stoppers and clinician needs to verify the drilling depth with the depth lines.
                                                                                                                        205




The GM NGS System allows selecting two sleeve positions - H9 and H11. The distance indicates 9 or 11 mm from the upper
part of the sleeve to the implant platform. Neodent sleeve height is 4mm. The thickness of the soft tissue and the insertion
depth of the implant determines the sleeve position and is calculated during planning in the coDiagnostiX software. It’s essen-
tial to check the drill marks to sleeve position to obtain the proper depth of the osteotomy


                                                                                                          dentalprint3D.pl
           206 | Guided Surgery




The Neodent® Acqua hydrophilic surface is the next level of the highly successful S.L.A. type of surface developed to   The GM (Grand Morse) Helix Implant mounted in the package after removal from the liquid.
achieve successful outcomes even in challenging situations, such as soft bone or immediate protocolsa.




GM NGS Connection (insertion adapters) allows to capture the implant from the packaging for fully-guided insertion of   Neodent® GM implants were developed to begin placement with contra-angle or manually, and finished with the torque
GM Implant through color-coded GM NGS Sleeve and ensures the right positioning with physical depth control.             wrench. The maximum recommended rotation speed for implant installation is 30 rpm, with a torque of 32 N.cm.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    207




The adapter allows subcrestal implant placement, due to the consistency of diameters between connection and implant.   Final implant positioning with the manual torque wrench. Alignment of one of the dimples with the index marker helps to
The dimples indicate the position of the internal connection.                                                          reach the optimum position of the internal connection according to the plan and prosthetic rehabilitation.




GM Healing Abutment 5.5mm during installation. Chlorhexidine gel is applied.                                           Situation after implant insertion with the flapless protocol.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   dentalprint3D.pl
       208 | Guided Surgery




The Neodent® GM scanbody before placement. The Neodent scanbodies are made in PEEK, an opaque polymer that   The Neodent® GM scanbody in place. The scanbody is used on an implant to transfer its position following scanning for
eliminates the need for any scanning spray.                                                                  use in CAD/CAM procedure.




Temporary restorations made of PMMA.                                                                         Temporary screw-retained PMMA crown in place. For soft tissue maturation and establishing final emergence profile, it’s
                                                                                                             essential to wait at least three months. Papilla level is affected by the bone level next to the central incisor.
                                                                                209

      The missing papilla is not visible in the smile thanks to the low lip dynamic.
The final restoration will be delivered after the soft tissue and papilla maturation.




                                                                     dentalprint3D.pl
210 | Guided Surgery




Case 6                                                                                           Planning, Surgery and Prosthetics
                                                                                                 Kris Chmielewski, DDS, MSc


Edentulous maxilla
                                                                                                 Maja Chmielewska, DDS
                                                                                                 Gdańsk / Poland

                                                                                                 Dental Technology
                                                                                                 SmileClinic LAB / Dental Print 3D
                                                                                                 Gdańsk / Poland

Description :
Diagnosis: Edentulism. Situation five months after the terminal dentitition was removed.
Treatment plan: Immediate functional loading with 4 implants
Planing software: coDiagnostiX™ (Dental Wings)
Tools and Materials: guide for implantation, Straumann BLT surgery set, Straumann BLX implants
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 211




The initial situation with the immediate temporary upper denture in place, which the patient started to use a few months   The edentulous maxilla five months after extraction of the hopeless dentition. The situation is stable, with enough vol-
in advance after remaining teeth were removed.                                                                             ume of keratinized soft tissue.




Dual scan technique was performed to obtain reliable information about the position of the teeth from the denture and      Data from the two CBCT scans are aligned in the coDiagnostiX with the x-ray markers positions as the reference.
bone. Existing denture of the patient was supplied with x-ray markers for the time of examination.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dentalprint3D.pl
212 | Guided Surgery




  3D visualization of bone, implants, and abutments.                                                3D visualization of denture of the patient used as the x-ray template with the long axis of the implants going through
                                                                                                    the occlusal plane.




  3D visualization of bone, implants, and fixation pins in place to secure future guide in place.   3D visualization of bone, implants, and fixation pins in place to secure guide position. 3D visualization with the trans-
                                                                                                    parency of the denture. The long axis of the distal implants is corrected with angulated screw-retained abutments (SRA).
                                                                                                                                                                                            213




Position 14 - Initial implant planning: Bone Level X Roxolid® SLActive® (RB) D4.5/L12   Position 12 - Initial implant planning: Bone Level X Roxolid® SLActive® (RB) D4.5/L10




Position 22 - Initial implant planning: Bone Level X Roxolid® SLActive® (RB) D4.5/L10   Position 24 - Initial implant planning: Bone Level X Roxolid® SLActive® (RB) D3.75/L10



                                                                                                                                                                                 dentalprint3D.pl
214 | Guided Surgery




    W                                                                                                                        A handy feature is the angulation measurement tool. The software allows to measure the angle in between the implants
                                                                                                                             and also abutments with information about acceptable deviation for insertion path of the prosthetic work.




    Selection of the sleeves for the surgical guide. In the software recommended sleeve system is highlighted. Open sleeve   Position of the sleeve is determined by the length of the implants, insertion depth, and thickness of the soft tissue.
    systems from other companies are also visible.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           215




From the dual scan examination, the denture is segmented and converted to the 3D object. Next, it is exported as the   Printed denture generated from the CBCT examination.
STL file to print the denture.




Denture serves as the base for model preparation of the soft tissue of the maxilla with A-silicones.                   Two layers of the A-silicone were used to form the model. Polymerization continues on the glass plate.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                dentalprint3D.pl
216 | Guided Surgery




      Borders of the silicone trimmed and marked with triangle cuts.                                                             Before removing the denture, the first scan was performed.




      The second scan in the lab is made after the denture removal. Now we have the duplicate of the soft tissue with triangle   Three layers merged in the coDiagnostiX. X-ray markers in the denture and triangle cuts in the silicone model were used
      cut markers for aligning the layers in the software.                                                                       to align all the layers.
                                                                  217



                           X-ray marker



                                                              Implant




X-ray template / denture                  Silicone model / soft tissue




                                                           Abutment




                                                             T-sleeve




                                                       dentalprint3D.pl
           218 | Guided Surgery




A surgical guide can be designed in the coDiagnostiX with the dual scan denture only, however, creating the silicone   Design of the surgical guide. Three fixation pins are placed in the front and additional support on the palate gives the
model helps to avoid difficulties in the design of the guide.                                                          stability. Window exposing the palate in the anterior gives access for anesthesia delivery and its expansion in the tissue.




The surgical guide is exported and saved as the STL file for printing.                                                 A printed guide with Straumann titanium T-sleeves in place.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         219




The first step is a fixation of the guide with the pins in the vestibulum. Local anesthesia delivery is in the vestibulum and   Tissue punch from the Straumann Guided Surgery Set.
the palate within the anterior window.




The flapless procedure with the use of the tissue punch is recommended in the situations when enough volume of the              The remaining soft tissue should is removed. A 12D blade is a helpful tool in releasing attached soft tissue elements.
keratinized soft tissue is present. Insertion depth is limited by the bone — motor speed: 50-100rpm.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            dentalprint3D.pl
220 | Guided Surgery




 Situation after punching the soft tissue. The large volume of the keratinized soft tissue gives stability for future results.   First implant bed preparation starts with the distal implants. According to the surgical plan correct length of the drill and
                                                                                                                                 corresponding drill handle is selected - pilot drill 2.2mm.




 Straumann drills dedicated to guided surgery have stoppers allowing safe and fast osteotomy. Cooling is limited, and            Next drill in the sequence is 2.8mm in the diameter.
 pumping movements with sharp instruments protect bone overheating — speed 800rpm.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             221




To achieve a more stable position of the guide, it’s recommended to use additional fixation pins placed temporarily into   The upper diameter of the pin (5mm) fits the inner diameter of the Straumann T-sleeve in the surgical guide.
prepared implant bony bed. The smaller diameter of the pin fits the osteotomy diameter (2.8mm)




Pilot drilling with the 2.2mm drill - for osteotomy in position number 24.                                                 The second drill with diameter 2.8mm is used to enlarge the osteotomy — speed 500rpm.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  dentalprint3D.pl
222 | Guided Surgery




   Secured position of the guide with three fixation pins in the front and two large supporting pins in the back.   Occlusal view: guide seats on the soft tissue of the ridge and palate.




   Osteotomy preparation in the front position starts with pilot drill 2.0 and appropriate drill holder.            Final osteotomy with the drill 2.8mm.
                                                      223




Straumann BLX Roxolid SLActive implant in the sterile vial.


                                           dentalprint3D.pl
224 | Guided Surgery




 Implant engagement with the machine driven adapter for the BLX implant.                                                 Straumann BLX Roxolid SLActive implant ready for placement.




 Freehand implant placement. At the time of publication, the Surgical Cassette for Guided Surgery with BLX implant was   Implant design helps to achieve excellent primary stability even in the soft bone.
 in the preparation phase.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     225




Improved design of the screw-retained abutment with BLX TorcFit™ connection. Slim and under-contoured abutment   Four implants in place with screw-retained abutments. Two in the front are straight, and two distal are angled with 30
design for maximized soft tissue space and predictable esthetic outcomes.                                        degrees angulation.




The transfer and alignment pins help to determine the alignment of the abutments and positioning.                For the time of preparation of the temporary restoration four protective caps were placed.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                      dentalprint3D.pl
226 | Guided Surgery




   Relining of the temporary denture with silicone material for bite registration to mark the position of the temporary caps.   Temporary denture with marked positions of the caps.




   Preparation of the denture for fixation with the temporary sleeves.                                                          Initial fixation of the denture with two temporary sleeves with acrylic material.
                                                                                                                                                                                  227




Position check of the additional two sleeves before fixation.   Immediate temporization based on the existing denture. Reduction of the palatal part of the denture.




Transfer of the implants posiition with PIC camera.             End



                                                                                                                                                                       dentalprint3D.pl
228 | Guided Surgery




How to order a guide?
          229




dentalprint3D.pl
230 | Guided Surgery




How to order a guide?                                                                                          Step-by-step procedure

                                                                                                               So, what you need to do to get the teeth
                                                                                                               supported template for late implantation.
For late implantation with teeth supported guide


To receive a template for computer navigation, which will enable the safe execution of the procedure, follow
the proposed steps. You have two options:
• Analog - classic impressions, plaster models
• Digital - intraoral scanning, laboratory scanning

Each of these methods leads to the same result: production of a precise template for computer navigation.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  231




Step 1: Impressions and bite registration                                                                   IMPORTANT: before the template is produced, the planning must be approved by the ordering dentist
                                                                                                            — acceptable forms of approval: written or email.
                                                                                                            If the treatment plan is rejected, the new plan will be submitted for approval. You can also cancel your
An analog approach:
                                                                                                            order after this step if there is not enough bone volume for the procedure or if you change your plan.
Take the alginate impressions of both jaws and pour the models. Register a bite
•    Option 1: Ask your local laboratory to scan the models and send the STL files back to you.
•    Option 2: Pack and send us models and bite registration - we will do the rest for you.                 Step 4: Creating a guide for computer navigation
•    Option 3: If you want to send us impressions, take them with a silicone material (PVS). We will pour
     the models and scan in our laboratory.                                                                 Print:
Digital approach:                                                                                           •     You can send us your template as an open STL file and we will print it.
Scan the two jaws with the intraoral scanner and save it as an open STL files.                              •     You can also send a guide design made in coDiagnostiX™, and we will export it as an open source
Take digital bite registration and save as an open STL file.                                                      STL file ready for printing.
                                                                                                            •     Your template will be printed on one of the most precise Stratasys Objet 260 Dental Selection
                                                                                                                  printers from certified medical materials.
Step 2: CBCT                                                                                                •     After printing, the template is thoroughly cleaned and can be delivered with or without sleeves.
                                                                                                            •     Do not sterilize the template in the autoclave. Acceptable methods include EtO or plasma steril-
CBCT examination:                                                                                                 ization. The most effective form of disinfection is to immerse the template in 70% alcohol for 15
Position the Patient’s head in the CBCT according to the planes of orientation.                                   minutes.
The upper and lower jaw must be separated during the examination. Place the positioner between the
teeth or any radiolucent element to take the scan in the open bite.
Recommended FOV 10x5cm, 10x10cm (limited FOV5x5cm)                                                          Step 5: Temporary restoration [option]
Exporting data:
                                                                                                            Using dedicated software, we can design and make temporary restorations:
IMPORTANT: Save data as uncompressed and unencrypted DICOM files in a separate folder.
                                                                                                            •    Individual healing screw based on TiBase (Variobase) made of PMMA.
Sending data:
                                                                                                            •    Screw-retained temporary crowns (PMMA and TiBase).
Option 1: Online transfer.
•    Compress the folder with DICOM data using dedicated software (WinZIP, WinRAR, Hamster ZIP
     Archiver).                                                                                             Step 6: Delivery
•    Send compressed folder using WeTrasnfer.
Option 2: Courier service.                                                                                  Deliveries are sent from our office every working day (Mon-Fri) except public holidays. The standard
Save the folder with uncompressed DICOM files to a CD/DVD or pendrive and send it to us using the           delivery time is counted in working days. We also offer express delivery. Standard UPS delivery: within
UPS service. Pay attention to the safe packaging to avoid damage.                                           48 hours (from approval of the project or receiving STL file for printing) in Poland. You will receive con-
                                                                                                            firmation and tracking number.


Step 3: Planning the implants
For the transferred data, attach a description of the planned treatment, which should contain informa-
tion on the region of implantation, type of implantation, preferred implant brand, model and size of the
implant and type of planned prosthetic restoration.

Planning approval:
After receiving your case, we will confirm this fact by phone or via e-mail or text message.
After the initial planning, we will send you a pdf report and cost evaluation. A template for navigation
will be planned based on the report and your comments.


                                                                                                                                                                                                    dentalprint3D.pl
232 | Guided Surgery




How to order a guide?                                                                          Step-by-step procedure

                                                                                               So, what you need to do to get the teeth
                                                                                               supported template for immediate im-
For immediate implantation with teeth supported guide                                          plantation.




IMPORTANT INFORMATION:
In order to prepare the template for immediate implantation, we recommend sending us
plaster models before removing the tooth from the model.
You can also send open digital files (STL). Based on the received files the 3D model will be
printed, which will be used to create the template.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 233




Step 1: Impressions and bite registration                                                                   IMPORTANT: before the template is produced, the planning must be approved by the ordering dentist
                                                                                                            — acceptable forms of approval: written or email.
                                                                                                            If the treatment plan is rejected, the new plan will be submitted for approval. You can also cancel your
An analog approach:
                                                                                                            order after this step if there is not enough bone volume for the procedure or if you change your plan.
Take the alginate impressions of both jaws and pour the models. Register a bite
•    Option 1: Ask your local laboratory to scan the models and send the STL files back to you.
•    Option 2: Pack and send us models and bite registration - we will do the rest for you.                 Step 4: Creating a guide for computer navigation
•    Option 3: If you want to send us impressions, take them with a silicone material (PVS). We will pour
     the models and scan in our laboratory.                                                                 Print:
Digital approach:                                                                                           •     You can send us your template as an open STL file and we will print it.
Scan the two jaws with the intraoral scanner and save it as an open STL files.                              •     You can also send a guide design made in coDiagnostiX™, and we will export it as an open source
Take digital bite registration and save as an open STL file.                                                      STL file ready for printing.
                                                                                                            •     Your template will be printed on one of the most precise Stratasys Objet 260 Dental Selection
                                                                                                                  printers from certified medical materials.
Step 2: CBCT                                                                                                •     After printing, the template is thoroughly cleaned and can be delivered with or without sleeves.
                                                                                                            •     Do not sterilize the template in the autoclave. Acceptable methods include EtO or plasma steril-
CBCT examination:                                                                                                 ization. The most effective form of disinfection is to immerse the template in 70% alcohol for 15
Position the Patient’s head in the CBCT according to the planes of orientation.                                   minutes.
The upper and lower jaw must be separated during the examination. Place the positioner between the
teeth or any radiolucent element to take the scan in the open bite.
Recommended FOV 10x5cm, 10x10cm (limited FOV5x5cm)                                                          Step 5: Temporary restoration [option]
Exporting data:
                                                                                                            Using dedicated software, we can design and make temporary restorations:
IMPORTANT: Save data as uncompressed and unencrypted DICOM files in a separate folder.
                                                                                                            •    Individual healing screw based on TiBase (Variobase) made of PMMA.
Sending data:                                                                                               •    Screw-retained temporary crowns (PMMA and TiBase).
Option 1: Online transfer.
•    Compress the folder with DICOM data using dedicated software (WinZIP, WinRAR, Hamster ZIP
     Archiver).                                                                                             Step 6: Delivery
•    Send compressed folder using WeTrasnfer.
Option 2: Courier service.                                                                                  Deliveries are sent from our office every working day (Mon-Fri) except public holidays. The standard
Save the folder with uncompressed DICOM files to a CD/DVD or pendrive and send it to us using the           delivery time is counted in working days. We also offer express delivery. Standard UPS delivery: within
UPS service. Pay attention to the safe packaging to avoid damage.                                           48 hours (from approval of the project or receiving STL file for printing) in Poland. You will receive con-
                                                                                                            firmation and tracking number.


Step 3: Planning the implants
For the transferred data, attach a description of the planned treatment, which should contain informa-
tion on the region of implantation, type of implantation, preferred implant brand, model and size of the
implant and type of planned prosthetic restoration.

Planning approval:
After receiving your case, we will confirm this fact by phone or via e-mail or text message.
After the initial planning, we will send you a pdf report and cost evaluation. A template for navigation
will be planned based on the report and your comments.


                                                                                                                                                                                                    dentalprint3D.pl
234 | Guided Surgery




How to order a guide?                                                                         Step-by-step procedure

                                                                                              So, what you need to do to get the teeth,
                                                                                              mucosa and bone supported template for
For free end situations                                                                       late implantation in the free end cases.




IMPORTANT INFORMATION:
To obtain optimal information about the thickness of the mucosa and the position of the
teeth, it is recommended to make a radiological template before taking the radiological ex-
amination (CT/CBCT).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 235




Step 1: Impressions and bite registration                                                                   Planning approval:
                                                                                                            After receiving your case, we will confirm this fact by phone or via e-mail or text message.
                                                                                                            After the initial planning, we will send you a pdf report and cost evaluation. A template for navigation
An analog approach:                                                                                         will be planned based on the report and your comments.
Take the alginate impressions of both jaws and pour the models.
Register a bite with wax rims.
                                                                                                            IMPORTANT: before the template is produced, the planning must be approved by the ordering dentist
                                                                                                            — acceptable forms of approval: written or email.
•    Option 1: Ask your local laboratory to prepare the radiological template with x-ray markers.
                                                                                                            If the treatment plan is rejected, the new plan will be submitted for approval. You can also cancel your
•    Option 2: Pack and send us models and bite registration with wax rims - we will do the rest for you.
                                                                                                            order after this step if there is not enough bone volume for the procedure or if you change your plan.
•    Option 3: If you want to send us impressions, take them with a silicone material (PVS). We will pour
     the models and prepare the radiological template with x-ray markers and we will send it back to
     you with clear instruction step by step how to perform the examination.                                Step 4: Creating a guide for computer navigation
Step 2: CBCT                                                                                                Print:
                                                                                                            •     You can send us your template as an open STL file and we will print it.
                                                                                                            •     You can also send a guide design made in coDiagnostiX™, and we will export it as an open source
CBCT examination: Dual Scan Technique                                                                             STL file ready for printing.
First scan:                                                                                                 •     Your template will be printed on one of the most precise Stratasys Objet 260 Dental Selection
•     Before performing the examination, the radiological template must be relined with the silicone              printers from certified medical materials.
      impression material and than placed in the patient’s mouth for the examination in the open bite.      •     After printing, the template is thoroughly cleaned and can be delivered with or without sleeves.
•     Position the Patient’s head in the CBCT according to the planes of orientation and use a positioner   •     Do not sterilize the template in the autoclave. Acceptable methods include EtO or plasma steril-
      with beard support (do not use a positioner between the teeth).                                             ization. The most effective form of disinfection is to immerse the template in 70% alcohol for 15
•     Recommended FOV field 10x5cm, 10x10cm.                                                                      minutes.
Second scan
Perform the second CBCT examination of the radiological template itself according to the guidelines of
the Dual Scan technique.                                                                                    Step 5: Temporary restoration [option]
Exporting data:
IMPORTANT: Save data as uncompressed and unencrypted DICOM files in a separate folder.                      The possibilities of temporary restorations depend on the number of implants. In order to achieve pas-
                                                                                                            sive seating, it is required to connect the structure elements in the mouth by a doctor.
Sending data:
Option 1: Online transfer.
•    Compress the folder with DICOM data using dedicated software (WinZIP, WinRAR, Hamster ZIP
     Archiver).
                                                                                                            Step 6: Delivery
•    Send compressed folder using WeTrasnfer.
                                                                                                            Deliveries are sent from our office every working day (Mon-Fri) except public holidays. The standard
Option 2: Courier service.
                                                                                                            delivery time is counted in working days. We also offer express delivery. Standard UPS delivery: within
Save the folder with uncompressed DICOM files to a CD/DVD or pendrive and send it to us using the
                                                                                                            48 hours (from approval of the project or receiving STL file for printing) in Poland. You will receive con-
UPS service. Pay attention to the safe packaging to avoid damage.                                           firmation and tracking number.



Step 3: Planning the implants
For the transferred data, attach a description of the planned treatment, which should contain informa-
tion on the region of implantation, type of implantation, preferred implant brand, model and size of the
implant and type of planned prosthetic restoration.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    dentalprint3D.pl
236 | Guided Surgery




Szablon przy bezzębiu


How to order a guide?                                                                         Step-by-step procedure

                                                                                              So, what you need to do to get the tem-
                                                                                              plate for edentulous cases with mucosa
For edentulous cases                                                                          support and bone stabilization with the
                                                                                              pins.




IMPORTANT INFORMATION:
To obtain optimal information about the thickness of the mucosa and the position of the
teeth, it is recommended to make a radiological template before taking the radiological ex-
amination (CT/CBCT).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  237




Step 1: Impressions and bite registration                                                                   Planning approval:
                                                                                                            After receiving your case, we will confirm this fact by phone or via e-mail or text message.
                                                                                                            After the initial planning, we will send you a pdf report and cost evaluation. A template for navigation
An analog approach:                                                                                         will be planned based on the report and your comments.
Take the alginate impressions of both jaws and pour the models.
                                                                                                            IMPORTANT: before the template is produced, the planning must be approved by the ordering dentist
Register a bite with wax rims.
                                                                                                            — acceptable forms of approval: written or email.
•    Option 1: Ask your local laboratory to prepare the radiological template with x-ray markers.
                                                                                                            If the treatment plan is rejected, the new plan will be submitted for approval. You can also cancel your
•    Option 2: Pack and send us models and bite registration with wax rims - we will do the rest for you.
                                                                                                            order after this step if there is not enough bone volume for the procedure or if you change your plan.
•    Option 3: If you want to send us impressions, take them with a silicone material (PVS). We will pour
     the models and prepare the radiological template with x-ray markers and we will send it back to
     you with clear instruction step by step how to perform the examination.                                Step 4: Creating a guide for computer navigation
Step 2: CBCT                                                                                                Print:
                                                                                                            •     You can send us your template as an open STL file and we will print it.
                                                                                                            •     You can also send a guide design made in coDiagnostiX™, and we will export it as an open source
CBCT examination: Dual Scan Technique                                                                             STL file ready for printing.
First scan:                                                                                                 •     Your template will be printed on one of the most precise Stratasys Objet 260 Dental Selection
•     Before performing the examination, the radiological template must be relined with the silicone              printers from certified medical materials.
      impression material and than placed in the patient’s mouth for the examination in the open bite.      •     After printing, the template is thoroughly cleaned and can be delivered with or without sleeves.
•     Position the Patient’s head in the CBCT according to the planes of orientation and use a positioner   •     Do not sterilize the template in the autoclave. Acceptable methods include EtO or plasma steril-
      with beard support (do not use a positioner between the teeth).                                             ization. The most effective form of disinfection is to immerse the template in 70% alcohol for 15
•     Recommended FOV field 10x5cm, 10x10cm.                                                                      minutes.
Second scan
Perform the second CBCT examination of the radiological template itself according to the guidelines of
the Dual Scan technique.                                                                                    Step 5: Temporary restoration [option]
Exporting data:
                                                                                                            The possibilities of temporary restorations depend on the number of implants. In order to achieve pas-
IMPORTANT: Save data as uncompressed and unencrypted DICOM files in a separate folder.
                                                                                                            sive seating, it is required to connect the structure elements in the mouth by a doctor.
Sending data:
Option 1: Online transfer.
•    Compress the folder with DICOM data using dedicated software (WinZIP, WinRAR, Hamster ZIP              Step 6: Delivery
     Archiver).
•    Send compressed folder using WeTrasnfer.                                                               Deliveries are sent from our office every working day (Mon-Fri) except public holidays. The standard
Option 2: Courier service.                                                                                  delivery time is counted in working days. We also offer express delivery. Standard UPS delivery: within
Save the folder with uncompressed DICOM files to a CD/DVD or pendrive and send it to us using the           48 hours (from approval of the project or receiving STL file for printing) in Poland. You will receive con-
UPS service. Pay attention to the safe packaging to avoid damage.                                           firmation and tracking number.



Step 3: Planning the implants
For the transferred data, attach a description of the planned treatment, which should contain informa-
tion on the region of implantation, type of implantation, preferred implant brand, model and size of the
implant and type of planned prosthetic restoration.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    dentalprint3D.pl
What you’ll learn and what you’ll find in this book:
• Why you should use computer navigation in implantology
• How to perform x-ray for implant planning
• Digitalization of impressions and models
• Intraoral and laboratory scanners
• What are the types of templates for computer navigation
• Techniques for fixing templates
• Which technique is the most accurate?
• Methods for creating templates for navigation
• 3D printing techniques
• Sterilization or disinfection of the template?
• Clinical cases
• How to order a template for navigation




                                                            www.dentalprint3D.pl
