10.5 & 9.185 & 9.18



10.6 & 9.19
Release Notes
We are constantly working to improve your experience with coDiagnostiX and have added the following exciting new
features for this update:


New AI Assistant automates data preparation – available as beta feature
       Until now, data preparation for patient cases needed to be done manually and could be time consuming.
       Starting with versions 10.6 and 9.19, coDiagnostiX offers a new and exciting AI feature to users, that automates
       some of these steps. The new AI Assistant automatically:

              segments CBCT scans
              detects patient coordinate system and panoramic curve
              detects nerves
              matches DICOM and surface scans (e.g. IO and model scans)


       As a result, you can streamline your workflows to save time during the data preparation process.

       The AI Assistant is made available as a beta feature. Users who are interested to become early adopters and
       provide feedback are invited to apply through the software.
STL export of scanbodies and analogues
        When exporting your patient case as an xOrder file through the Virtual Planning Export you can already choose
        whether you would like to use implants or abutments as your export basis. This feature is now being expanded
        to include STL exports of scanbodies and implant analogues as well.

        This feature is especially useful in cases that require a temporary restoration to be placed on an abutment,
        such as for edentulous cases. In addition to already being available within the DWOS/CARES workflow, the
        feature can now be used for 3rd party Dental CAD software as well.




New sleeves available
                Anthogyr X3 implants and surgical protocols for Anthogyr Integral are now supported
                Metal sleeves available for the TLX BLX implant lines:

Mesh editor

        A new version of the mesh editor has been implemented, that provides the following new functionalities:

                Local smoothing
                Wax knife to add or remove material
                Local remeshing
                Partial hole filling, create surface
                 bridges between two meshes


        Furthermore, the mesh editor now comes in
        a new 3D data visualization, that is faster
        and looks more sleek.

        The editor can be switched back to the old
        rendering for those who prefer it.




cDX10.6_Release_Notes_EN_3-2022
