CODIAGNOSTIX®
RELEASE NOTES 10.8

VIRTUAL TOOTH EXTRACTION NOW AUTOMATED
Teeth can now be removed from surface scans automatically
to prepare cases for immediate tooth extraction.

There are three extraction options available:


 1   CUT OUT
This extraction workflow removes the teeth to allow for a
better visualization of the gap between the soft tissue and
the bone. It is designed to aid the guide design process in
your tooth extraction workflow.


2    CUT OUT AND CLOSE
This extraction workflow removes the teeth and closes
the gap. It is designed to mimic the shape of a healed site
after extraction.


3    CUT OUT DENTAL ALVEOLUS
This extraction workflow is designed to improve the
CAD design workflow. You can now export the intraoral
scan and use the alveolar socket contour in order to pre-
cisely design the emergence profile in your CAD system.

After the surface scan has been processed by the AI, the
tooth extraction pops up in the context menu of the surface
scan.

                                                              Requires the graphic adapter to support OpenGL 3.3 or higher.




MANUAL CORRECTION OF AI TOOTH LABELS
The AI did not detect all tooth numbers correctly?
Users can now manually edit them.

Correcting tooth numbers comes in handy for a number
of reasons: they are used to detect coordinate system
and panoramic curve as well as needed for automatic
surface matching and tooth extraction.
To use the manual correction feature, click on a tooth in
the first screen of the AI review dialog.
  CODIAGNOSTIX®
  RELEASE NOTES 10.8



BETTER INITIAL COLORS WHEN IMPORTING SURFACE SCANS
When adding surface scans, coDiagnostiX now assigns colors from a color palette.
With this update, coDiagnostiX delivers a default palette. To change the predefined color palette,
right click on an imported model scan --> Visualization… --> color picker dropdown menu --> Edit palettes.



OTHER IMPROVEMENTS/CHANGES
• Print direct to PDF, without print preview.

• We increased the maximum font size in 2D and 3D views. Go to main menu --> Extras --> Settings --> Text size of measures
  and annotations.

• In the virtual planning export’s xOrder workflow, users are now made aware to check whether the implant kit offset
  is correct before proceeding with the prosthetic design.

• Virtual planning export can now export antagonist scans via xOrder.

• Replace a 3D object with another mesh while maintaining its alignment. Right click on a 3D object --> Replace Mesh.

• Fine alignment now always uses the entered distance or degrees when moving or rotating objects.

• Following the mesh editor, the tooth extraction editor now also requires the graphic adapter to support OpenGL 3.3 or higher.




USER INTERFACE TRANSLATIONS
coDiagnostiX is now available in two additional languages:

Dutch and Hungarian.

Go to Startscreen --> Management --> Change Language.




HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS
coDiagnostiX now requires a GPU that supports at least OpenGL 3.3. Additionally, a 64-bit CPU is requisite to make sure
coDiagnostiX can use as much memory as possible for a 32-bit application.




GOOD TO KNOW
Starting with version 10.8, coDiagnostiX is no longer able to read coDiagnostiX patient archives or patient databases created
with versions 9.7.6 or older. Please contact our customer support if this affects you.

When using a network dongle, no new instance of coDiagnostiX can be started after the user limit has been reached.
The message that the user limit has been reached is currently not working correctly. It opens in the background and is not
visible. The new instance of coDiagnostiX does not respond to user input.
