coDiagnostiX 10.8.1 Hotfix 1
Improvements
    ⦁   Surgical guides created in version 10.7 containing attached 3D objects were marked as invalid in
        version 10.8. This has been fixed.
    ⦁   Fixed stability issues introduced with version 10.8.



coDiagnostiX 10.8.1
Improvements
    ⦁   Added a surgical protocol printout for Straumann BLC and TLC implants.
    ⦁   Fixed an issue with printed empty surgical protocol pages when implant-sleeve combination does
        not support a surgical protocol.
    ⦁   Fixed an issue with the Anthogyr protocol not supporting the US tooth schema.
    ⦁   Fixed an issue with missing S/SP category information printed on the Straumann VeloDrill surgical
        protocol.
    ⦁   Updated the .net runtime, which is required by the AI integration service.



coDiagnostiX 10.8
Virtual tooth extraction now automated
Teeth can now be removed from surface scans automatically to prepare cases for immediate tooth
extraction.

There are three extraction options available:

    ⦁   Cut out
        This extraction workflow removes the teeth to allow for a better visualization of the gap between
        the soft tissue and the bone. It is designed to aid the guide design process in your tooth
        extraction workflow.

    ⦁   Cut out and close
        This extraction workflow removes the teeth and closes the gap. It is designed to mimic the shape
        of a healed site after extraction.

    ⦁   Cut out dental alveolus
        This extraction workflow is designed to improve the CAD design workflow. You can now export
        the intraoral scan and use the alveolar socket contour in order to precisely design the emergence
        profile in your CAD system.

After the surface scan has been processed by the AI, the tooth extraction pops up in the context menu of
the surface scan.



                                                    1
Requires the graphic adapter to support OpenGL 3.3 or higher.

Manual correction of AI tooth labels
The AI did not detect all tooth numbers correctly? Users can now manually edit them.

Correcting tooth numbers comes in handy for a number of reasons: they are used to detect coordinate
system and panoramic curve as well as needed for automatic surface matching and tooth extraction.

To use the manual correction feature, click on a tooth in the first screen of the AI review dialog.

Better initial colors when importing surface scans
When adding surface scans, coDiagnostiX now assigns colors from a color palette. With this update,
coDiagnostiX delivers a default palette. To change the predefined color palette, right click on an imported
model scan --> Visualization… --> color picker dropdown menu --> Edit palettes.

Other improvements/changes
     ⦁    Print direct to PDF, without print preview.
     ⦁    We increased the maximum font size in 2D and 3D views. Go to main menu --> Extras -->
          Settings --> Text size of measures and annotations.
     ⦁    In the virtual planning export’s xOrder workflow, users are now made aware to check whether
          Implant kit offset is correct before proceeding with the prosthetic design.
     ⦁    Virtual planning export can now export antagonist scans via xOrder.
     ⦁    Replace a 3D object with another mesh while maintaining its alignment. Right click on a 3D
          object --> Replace Mesh
     ⦁    Fine alignment now always uses the entered distance or degrees when moving or rotating
          objects.
     ⦁    Following the mesh editor, the tooth extraction editor now also requires the graphic adapter to
          support OpenGL 3.3 or higher.

User interface translations
coDiagnostiX is now available in two additional languages: Dutch and Hungarian. Go to Startscreen 
Management  Change Language.

Hardware Requirements
coDiagnostiX now requires a GPU that supports at least OpenGL 3.3. Additionally, a 64-bit CPU is requisite
to make sure coDiagnostiX can use as much memory as needed for a 32 bit application.

Good to know
Starting with version 10.8, coDiagnostiX is no longer able to read coDiagnostiX patient archives or patient
databases created with versions 9.7.6 or older. Please contact our customer support if this affects you.

When using a network dongle, no new instance of coDiagnostiX can be started after the user limit has
been reached. The message that the user limit has been reached is currently not working correctly. It
opens in the background and is not visible. The new instance of coDiagnostiX does not respond to user
input.



                                                                2
