          coDiagnostiX™
         Dental Surgery Planning Software


Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans
CONTENTS

 1. Supporting information for (CB)CT scans    4

 2. CT scans                                   5
   2.1 Preparation                             5
   2.2 Patient positioning                     6
   2.3 Scanning process                        6
   2.4 Storage of CT scans                     8
   2.5 Visualization of motion artifacts       8
   2.6 Checklist for CT scans                  9

 3. CBCT scans                                12
   3.1 Preparation                            12
   3.2 Patient positioning                    12
   3.3 Scanning process                       13
   3.4 Storage of CBCT scans                  13
   3.5 Checklist for CBCT scans               14
1. Supporting information for (CB)CT scans
This appendix provides additional information for radiologists and MTAs to help them produce
appropriate (CB)CT scans for subsequent dental implant planning with coDiagnostiX. It outlines
the specific requirements imposed on such scans by coDiagnostiX.

To download a print version, click here
2. CT scans

2.1 Preparation
n   All metal parts (such as those contained in removable partial dentures) which are not fixed
    must be removed from the patient's mouth.
n   When using the analog workflow with the gonyX:
    – Have the patient wear a scan template with reference pins during radiology. The reference
      pins must be completely visible in the CT scan. The correct fabrication of the scan
      template lies within the responsibility of the user.
    – Make sure that all components attached to the scan template are firmly fixed to avoid the
      risk of aspiration.




         Caution

      Before placing the scan template or surgical guide into the patient's mouth, make sure
      to prepare such template or guide according to standard operating procedures in
      dentistry and the instructions for use provided for your material.




n   Block the opposite jaw with a wooden applicator or silicone.
n   Insert dental cotton rolls to keep lips and cheeks away from gingiva.
n   Make sure the tongue does not touch the palate.




coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans                                          5
2.2 Patient positioning

The positioning instructions given below are
applicable for scanning maxilla or mandible
as well as for scanning both jaws
simultaneously. In the latter case, the patient
must wear both scan templates (analog
workflow only).

n   Position the patient as shown in the figure
    and ensure that the patient does not move
    during the scanning procedure.
n   A gantry angle of 0° is recommended.
    However, the software is able to process
    image data produced with a gantry angle
    ≠ 0°, if necessary.
n   Align the occlusal plane to the scan plane
    as accurately as possible.



2.3 Scanning process


Maxilla

When scanning the maxilla, choose the image section so that the upper jaw bone is completely
visible. The scan should comprise the area from the occlusal plane to the middle of the
maxillary sinus.

The ideal field of view (FOV) is 8 to 12 cm.




6                                              coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans
Exception

If a sinus lift is planned or planning will occur
with Zygoma implants, the scan should
comprise the area from the occlusal plane to
the orbital floor to meet the modified planning
situation. Additionally, it is recommended to
choose a field of view which also includes the
zygomatic arches.



Mandible

When scanning the mandible, choose the
image section so that the lower jaw bone is
completely visible. The scan should comprise
the area from the occlusal plane to the basis
of the mandible. It is recommended to scan
an additional slice below the bone in the soft
tissue to make sure that the corpus
mandibulae is completely captured.

The ideal field of view (FOV) is 9 to 14 cm.



Important scanning parameters

n   A gantry angle of 0° is recommended to achieve the best quality for image reconstruction.
n   Block the opposite jaw with dental cotton rolls or adequate non-radiopaque material.
n   Do NOT vary reconstruction parameters within a series (constant value for X and Y axis).
n   Set a high-resolution bone algorithm (actual setting depends on the device).
n   Parameters for a complete dataset when using dynamic mode:
    – Slices: 0.5 mm to 1.0 mm (0.5 mm recommended)
n   When using spiral mode, reconstruction to 1.0 mm slices or less (0.5 mm is recommended).
n   KV: approx. 110 to 130
n   mA: approx. 20 to 120




coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans                                        7
2.4 Storage of CT scans
For dental implant planning with coDiagnostiX, only axial slices are required.

n   Store the image data set in DICOM III format on CD-ROM or on any other portable storage
    device. Do not save raw data. Only axial image data are required for planning with
    coDiagnostiX.


2.5 Visualization of motion artifacts
Motion artifacts in CT scans may affect 3D planning with coDiagnostiX. When working with a
scan template, you may attach a scan control bar to the template prior to scanning.

The scan control bar is available as accessory. It has a length of 6 cm and a diameter of 2 mm
and should be visible in all slices of the CT scan.



How to use the scan control bar

n   There is a hole on the left and right side in
    the front area of the reference plate to fix
    the scan control bar. One scan control bar
    will be sufficient. During the CT scan, the
    scan control bar remains outside the
    mouth.




n   Position the scan control bar in a way that
    it will be visible in the axial planes at upper
    or lower jaw level.
n   Make sure the scan control bar is not bent.




8                                              coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans
n    After CT scanning, scroll through the axial
     slices to evaluate the appearance of the
     scan control bar in these slices and identify
     possible motion during the scan. 3D
     reconstruction will facilitate evaluation.



n    If you detect significant offset between the
     single slices, it may be necessary to repeat
     the CT scan.




         Note

    It is not mandatory to use the scan control bar when working with coDiagnostiX. However, it
    is recommended to visualize motion artifacts better. The scan control bar is not needed for
    devices which do not scan by slices (e.g. CBCTs).




2.6 Checklist for CT scans

    Work step                                                                           Done

                                n   All components attached to the scan
                                    template are firmly fixed.
                  With          n   Before placing the scan template in the
    1.            scan              patient's mouth make sure such template is          c
                template            prepared according to dental standard
                                    operating procedures and the material's
                                    instructions for use.

                  With          Patient interview/indication by referring        Yes    c
    2.            scan          clinician:
                template        n   Patient wears a template                     No     c




coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans                                          9
     Work step                                                                         Done

                            n   All metal parts which are not fixed have
                                been removed from the patient's mouth
                            n   Opposite jaw blocked with a wooden
     3.                         applicator or silicone                                 c
                            n   Dental cotton rolls inserted to keep lips and
                                cheeks away from gingiva
                            n   Tongue does not touch palate

                            Scan template check:
                   With     n   Template correctly fitted
     4.            scan                                                                c
                 template
                            n   Scan control bar fitted to the scan template
                                to visualize motion artifacts

                            Gantry angle adjustment:
                            n   Gantry angle: 0°

     5.
                            n   ATTENTION: Set a gantry angle of 0° even if            c
                                the patient cannot move the occlusal plane
                                to the scan plane. This will be calculated by
                                coDiagnostiX afterwards.

                            Slice distance setting:
     6.                                                                                c
                            n   1 mm or less (0.5 mm recommended)

                            Standard instructions for patients:
     8.                     n   Do not move, do not swallow, do not                    c
                                breathe

                            Adjustment of the image section according to
     9.                     the advices given in the preceding sections of             c
                            this chapter

                            Data export to CD or other storage medium:
     10.                    n   DICOM III Format, no raw data                          c
                            n   No separate viewer required




10                                        coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans
coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans   11
3. CBCT scans
3.1 Preparation
For the production of CBCT scans follow the instructions of your device manufacturer.

n    All metal parts (such as those contained in removable partial dentures) which are not fixed
     must be removed from the patient's mouth.
n    When using the analog workflow with the gonyX:
      – Have the patient wear a scan template with reference pins during radiology. The reference
        pins must be completely visible in the CBCT scan. The correct fabrication of the scan
        template lies within the responsibility of the user.
      – Make sure that all components attached to the scan template are firmly fixed to avoid the
        risk of aspiration.




       Caution

     Before placing the scan template or surgical guide into the patient's mouth, make sure to
     prepare such template or guide according to standard operating procedures in dentistry and
     the instructions for use provided for your material.




n    Block the opposite jaw with a wooden applicator or silicone.
n    Insert dental cotton rolls to keep lips and cheeks away from gingiva.
n    Make sure the tongue does not touch the palate.


3.2 Patient positioning
The positioning instructions given below are applicable for scanning maxilla or mandible as well
as for scanning both jaws simultaneously. In the latter case, the patient must wear both scan
templates (analog workflow only).




12                                           coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans
n   Position the patient as shown in the figure
    and ensure that the patient does not move
    during the scanning procedure.
n   Align the occlusal plane to the scan plane
    as accurately as possible.




3.3 Scanning process
Follow the instructions and recommendations given by the manufacturer of your CBCT device.


3.4 Storage of CBCT scans
For dental implant planning with coDiagnostiX, only axial slices are required.

Store the image data set in DICOM III format on CD-ROM or on any other portable storage
device. Do not save raw data. Only axial image data are required for planning with coDiagnostiX.




coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans                                      13
3.5 Checklist for CBCT scans

     Work step                                                                       Done


                        n   All components attached to the scan
                            template are firmly fixed.
             With       n   Before placing the scan template in the
     1.      scan           patient's mouth make sure such template                  c
             template       is prepared according to dental standard
                            operating procedures and the material's
                            instructions for use.


             With       Patient interview/indication by referring           Yes      c
     2.      scan       clinician:
             template   n   Patient wears a template                        No       c
                        n   All metal parts which are not fixed have
                            been removed from the patient's mouth
                        n   Opposite jaw blocked with a wooden
     3.                     applicator or silicone                                   c
                        n   Dental cotton rolls inserted to keep lips
                            and cheeks away from gingiva
                        n   Tongue does not touch palate


             With       Scan template check:
     4.      scan                                                                    c
                        n   Template correctly fitted
             template

                        Slice distance setting:
     5.                                                                              c
                        n   0.2 – 0.8 mm




14                                      coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans
  Work step                                                               Done


                             Standard instructions for patients:
  7.                         n   Do not move, do not swallow, do not      c
                                 breathe


                             Adjustment of the image section according
  8.                         to the recommendations given for your        c
                             CBCT device

                             Data export to CD or other storage medium:
  9.                         n   DICOM III Format, no raw data            c
                             n   No separate viewer required




coDiagnostiX™ 10 Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans                         15
                              www.dentalwings.com
                              www.codiagnostix.com



Dental Wings GmbH                                       Distributor stamp
Düsseldorfer Platz 1
09111 Chemnitz
GERMANY

T +49 371 273903-70
F +49 371 273903-88

coDiagnostiX™ Supporting information for (CB)CT Scans
CDX-070-EN v7 2022-04-25
